How are you , really ?
How do you feel right now ?
What are you thinking about ?
What’s your favourite colour ?
What’s your favourite food ?
What’s your favourite dessert ?
How old are you ?
Where do you live ?
How long have you lived there ?
What have you learned today ?
What was your favourite subject in school ?
What is your favourite class at university ?
What do you do ?
Are you religious ?
What are some of your favourite books ?
What are some of your favourite movies ?
What kind of music do you enjoy ?
What kind of music do you like ?
If you were going to write a book , what would you call it and what would it be about ?
What’s one of the scariest things you’ve ever done ?
What accomplishment are you most proud of ?
Are you married ?
Are you single ?
How did you meet your spouse ?
How did you meet your girlfiend ?
How did you meet your boyfriend ?
How did you meet your fiancé ?
How did you meet your partner ?
Do you think it’s better to get married when you’re young or better to wait a while ?
Do you have any kids ?
Do you have any children ?
Have you ever thought of adopting ?
When you were a kid , what did you want to be when you grew up ?
How did you get into your field of study ?
How did you get into your field of work ?
Would you recommend your career for other people ?
Why or why not ?
What do you do for fun ?
Do you like traveling ?
If you could visit any country in the world , where would you go ?
Who are some people you’d like to meet someday ?
If someone asked you to give them a random piece of advice , what would you say ?
What’s one of your favourite habits you have ?
What are some things that make you really happy ?
What are some things that make you really sad ?
What are some things that make you really angry ?
What are some things that scare you ?
Do you like to plan things out in detail or be spontaneous ?
Are you a religious person ?
If you could go back in history , who would you like to meet ?
Would you rather live in the country or in the city ?
What was your life like growing up ?
What were you like in high school ?
Do you have any brothers or sisters ? How many ?
What’s your favourite part about today so far ?
Who in your life has influenced you the most ?
How did they do it ?
What’s your favourite joke ?
Have you ever tried sushi ?
Did you like it ?
Do you like pasta ?
Do you like pizza ?
Do you like vegetables ?
Do you like fruit ?
Do you like spicy food ?
How do you like your steak cooked ?
Do you have a favourite number ?
Any particular reason why you like that number ?
If you were a type of animal , what would you be and why ?
What’s one of the strangest things you’ve ever done ?
What kind of vacations do you like ?
What are some of your major goals in life ?
What are some of your smaller goals in life ?
What do you like least about yourself ?
What embarrasses you ?
If you could try out any job for a day , what would you like to try ?
What’s your earliest memory ?
What’s the best decision you ever made ?
Who’s your best friend ?
What do you think people think of you ?
What were your grades like in school ?
If you could learn one random skill , what would you learn ?
Are you an introvert or an extrovert ?
Have you ever taken a personality test ?
What’s the first thing you notice about people ?
Do you think people can control their own destiny ?
Do you think people are basically bad or basically good ?
Do you think morals are universal or relative to the beliefs , traditions , and practices of individuals or groups ?
Do you think God exists ?
Do you think any kind of afterlife exists ?
Do you vote ?
Do you think gay people choose to be gay ?
Do you think straight people choose to be straight ?
Is torture ever a good option ? If no , why not ? If yes , when ?
Would you kill an innocent person if you thought it might mean saving a dozen other people ?
What’s the most money you’ve ever given away ?
What’s the biggest personal change you’ve ever made ?
What’s the stupidest thing you’ve ever done ?
What do you think would be one of the best steps we could take toward ending poverty around the world ?
What do you think we could do to best improve the education system ?
In general , what do you think about art ?
What are some of your favourite websites ?
What’s the biggest lie you’ve ever told ?
What’s something most people don’t know about you ?
What’s something your mother doesn't know about you ?
What’s something your father doesn't know about you ?
What’s something your sister doesn't know about you ?
What’s something your brother doesn't know about you ?
What’s something your friend doesn't know about you ?
What’s something your cousin doesn't know about you ?
What’s something your family doesn't know about you ?
What’s something your relatives doesn't know about you ?
What’s something one of your relatives doesn't know about you ?
What’s something you wish everyone knew about you ?
What are some of the first things you do in the morning ?
What’s the worst thing that’s ever happened to you ?
Do you cry easily ?
How do you feel about public speaking ?
Do you like to talk on the phone ?
How many emails do you get each week , roughly ?
If someone were to make a movie about your life , who would you hope would play you ?
What’s one of your favourite questions to ask new friends or to get a conversation going ?
Would you ever sky dive or bungee jump ?
Have you ever been in a fist fight ?
What’s the best prank you’ve ever pulled ?
What did you do on your 16th birthday ?
What did you do on your 11th birthday ?
What did you do on your 22nd birthday ?
What did you do on your 34th birthday ?
What did you do on your 71st birthday ?
What did you do on your 53rd birthday ?
What do you think is one of the most undervalued professions right now ?
How would you explain your basic life philosophy ?
Would you rather be hated or forgotten ?
If you knew you would die tomorrow , would you feel cheated today ?
 Summary 
Advertising is how a company encourages people to buy their products , services or ideas .
An advertisement (or "ad" for short) is anything that draws good attention towards these things .
It is usually designed by an advertising agency for an identified sponsor , and performed through a variety of media .
Ads appear on television , as well as radio , newspapers , magazines and as billboards in streets and cities .
They try to get people to buy their products , by showing them the good rather than bad of their products .
Advertisers influence our emotions by techniques that include stereotyping and targeting the audience according to who we are .
Emotions are influenced by things such as this our occupation , beliefs , personality , self esteem , lifestyle , relationships , friends , how we look and what we wear .
Advertisers use methods that attract attention .
For example , to make a burger look tasty in advertising , it may be painted with brown food colours , sprayed with waterproofing to prevent it from going soggy and sesame seeds may be super-glued in place .
Advertising can bring new customers and more sales for the business .
It can be expensive but can help make a business make more money .
 History 
Commercial messages and political campaign displays have been found in the ruins of Pompeii and ancient Arabia .
Lost and found advertising on papyrus was common in Ancient Greece and Rome .
Wall or rock painting for commercial advertising is  present to this day in many parts of Asia , Africa , and South America .
The tradition of wall painting can be traced back to Indian rock art paintings that date back to 4000 BC .Londoner Thomas J . Barratt  (1841–1914) has been called "the father of modern advertising" .
He worked for the Pears Soap company , eventually becoming its Chairman .
Barratt created an advertising campaign for the company products .
It used targeted slogans , images and phrases .
One of his slogans , "Good morning .
Have you used Pears' soap ?"
was famous in its day and into the 20th century .Barratt introduced many of the crucial ideas that lie behind successful advertising and these were widely circulated in his day .
He constantly stressed the importance of a strong and exclusive brand image for Pears and of emphasizing the product's availability through saturation campaigns .
He also understood the importance of constantly reevaluating the market for changing tastes and mores , stating in 1907 that "tastes change , fashions change , and the advertiser has to change with them .
An idea that was effective a generation ago would fall flat , stale , and unprofitable if presented to the public today .
Not that the idea of today is always better than the older idea , but it is different – it hits the present taste .
"As the economy expanded across the world during the 19th century , advertising grew alongside .
In the United States , the success of this advertising format eventually led to the growth of mail-order advertising .
Very important was the growth of mass media , with mass circulation illustrated newspapers in the later 19th century followed by movies , radio and television .
 Types of advertising 
Advertising happens in many different ways .
Many products are advertised on television , although not all channels permit advertising .
The advertisements usually appear during breaks between a television show .
They are usually for products , other television shows or movies and are not normally much longer than 30 seconds .
Some radio stations have audio advertisements that play between programmes .
An advertisement for a movie is called a trailer .
It shows a short collection of clips from the movie , and shows the date it will be released in cinemas .
Advertising also takes place on websites .
These may appear as "banner ads" or "popups" .
They are often still images or flash animations .
The owner of the website will get money when a user clicks on the advertisement .
Sometimes they will get a percentage of the money if they buy a product .
Billboards advertise products on highways and city streets .
 Summary 
Aframomum corrorima is a species in the ginger family , Zingiberaceae .
The spice , known as Ethiopian cardamom , false cardamom , or korarima , is obtained from the plant's seeds (usually dried) , and is extensively used in Ethiopian and Eritrean cuisine .
It is an ingredient in berbere , mitmita , awaze , and other spice mixtures , and is also used to flavor coffee .
In Ethiopian herbal medicine , the seeds are used as a tonic , carminative , and laxative .The plant is native to Tanzania , western Ethiopia (in the vicinity of Lake Tana and Gelemso) , southwestern Sudan , western Uganda .
It is cultivated in both Ethiopia and Eritrea .
 See also 
Aframomum melegueta
Cardamom
List of Ethiopian dishes and foods
 Summary 
Akele Guzai was a province in the interior of Eritrea until 1996 , when the newly independent national government consolidated all provinces into six regions .
Allergies .
Allergies are among the most common chronic conditions worldwide . Allergy symptoms range from making you miserable to putting you at risk for life - threatening reactions . According to the leading experts in allergy , an allergic reaction begins in the immune system . Our immune system protects us from invading organisms that can cause illness . If you have an allergy , your immune system mistakes an otherwise harmless substance as an invader . This substance is called an allergen . The immune system overreacts to the allergen by producing Immunoglobulin E antibodies . These antibodies travel to cells that release histamine and other chemicals , causing an allergic reaction .
Allergy symptoms .
An allergic reaction typically triggers symptoms in the nose , lungs , throat , sinuses , ears , lining of the stomach or on the skin . For some people , allergies can also trigger symptoms of asthma . In the most serious cases , a life - threatening reaction called anaphylaxis can occur .
Runny nose , stuffy nose and sneezing . Are your sneezing and runny nose the result of a common cold or a sign of allergies ?
Wheezing and shortness of breath are common symptoms for asthma , but they can also be a sign of allergies .
A dry , persistent cough may be a sign that you have allergies .
Rashes come in many forms . Eczema , contact dermatitis and hives are three types of rashes that can be caused by allergies .
Are you tired and irritable ? Your fatigue could be a sign of untreated allergies .
Fifty percent of adults report they experience a headache at least once a year . Some headaches can be caused by an allergy .
Nausea and vomiting are two symptoms of food allergies .
Common allergies .
Anaphylaxis : Anaphylaxis is a serious , life - threatening allergic reaction . The most common anaphylactic reactions are to food , insect stings , medications and latex .
Eye allergy : The first step toward relief from annoying eye allergy symptoms is proper diagnosis .
Food allergy : Some of the symptoms of food intolerance and food allergy are similar . Yet the differences between the two are very important . Food allergies are estimated to affect 4 to 6 percent of children and 4 percent of adults .
Latex allergy : Latex allergies are most common in people who have regular exposure to latex products . Allergic reactions to latex may be serious and can very rarely be fatal . If you have latex allergy you should limit or avoid future exposure to latex products such as balloons and latex gloves
Medication allergy : Adverse reactions to medications are common . Could your reaction be allergic ? If you develop a rash , hives or difficulty breathing after taking certain medications , you may have a drug allergy .
Mold and dust allergy : Many people allergic to mold develop symptoms outdoors on days when mold spores are in the air . You may also have symptoms indoors if mold is in your home , school or workplace . Molds live everywhere ; for example on logs and on fallen leaves , and in moist places like bathrooms and kitchens . People who have dust allergies are familiar with sneezing .
Pet allergy : Pet allergies can contribute to constant allergy symptoms , such as causing your eyes to water , or causing you to start sneezing . It is not your pet 's hair or fur that causes an allergic reaction or aggravates asthma . It is the protein found in a pet 's dander , skin flakes , saliva and urine .
Rhinitis : If you sneeze a lot , if your nose is often runny or stuffy , or if your eyes , mouth or skin often feels itchy , you may have allergic rhinitis . Seasonal allergic rhinitis is most often caused by pollen . Perennial allergic rhinitis is triggered by common indoor allergens .
Sinusitis : People with allergic rhinitis or asthma are more likely to suffer from chronic sinusitis . Sinus infection is a major health problem .
Skin allergies : Bumps , itching , redness and other skin conditions are very common , and their cause may not be easily identifiable . Rashes can be caused by many things , including plants ( poison ivy , for example ) , allergic reactions to a medication or a food , or an illness ( measles or chickenpox , for example ) . Eczema and hives , both of which are related to allergies , are two of the most common skin rashes .
Stinging insect allergy : Most of us develop redness and swelling at the site of an insect bite . Yet people with an insect allergy are at risk for a much more serious reaction . Stings from five insects such as honey bees , hornets , wasps , yellow jackets and fire ants are known to cause allergic reactions to the venom injected into the skin . Some people develop allergy symptoms when they are around cockroaches .
Allergy diagnosis : If you or your child have allergy symptoms , an allergist / immunologist , often referred to as an allergist , can help with a diagnosis . An allergist has advanced training and experience to properly diagnose your condition and prescribe an allergy treatment and management plan to help you feel better and live better .
 Summary 
Anger is one of the basic emotions .
It is an inherited response , and is common to all mammals and a number of other animals .
It happens when we are threatened , offended , wronged , or denied something we really want or need .
Rage is the strongest form of anger .
 Psychology of anger 
Anger is a normal emotion .
It involves a strong , uncomfortable and emotional response to a provocation .
There is a sharp distinction between anger and aggression (verbal or physical , direct or indirect) .
Both influence each other .
Anger can start aggression or increase its probability or intensity .
However , it is not necessary nor sufficient for aggression .Anger is a bit like a pressure cooker : we can only apply pressure against our anger for a certain amount of time until it explodes .People show anger to others by their face , what they do with their body , not trying to understand or help other people's problems , and sometimes acts of aggression or force in public (e .g .
punching a wall) .
Animals and humans might try to scare- by making loud sounds , trying to make their bodies look bigger , by showing their teeth , or by staring .
When we face a challenge , our response may be anger or fear .
It may be difficult to decide whether to face the challenge , or walk away .
In animal behaviour terms , we face the choice of a fight or flight response .
 Hormones and body changes 
Being angry changes the human body by making the heart beat faster , increasing blood pressure (the pressure made by the blood at right angles of the walls of blood vessels) and increasing amounts of the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline (chemicals which send messages to parts of the body to make changes) .Being angry makes the levels of the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline in the body go up , although this does not last for very long .
Adrenaline quickly makes the body ready to act when there is important trouble by increasing the supply of oxygen and glucose (needed to make energy) to the brain and muscles , while slowing less important things the body is doing , like digesting food .Noradrenaline is released during stress .
It goes to areas of the brain which control attention (how much you think or concentrate) and reactions .
It is very important  when the body chooses "fight-or-flight" (attacking or running away) .
Then it increases heart rate , takes glucose out of storage so it can be used , and increases blood flow to muscles .
 Symptoms 
Anger may be passive anger or aggressive anger .
These two types of anger have some characteristic symptoms :
 Summary 
Asmara is the capital city of Eritrea .
It is the largest settlement in the country .
Asmara has a population of about 579 ,000 people .
Textiles and clothing , meat , beer , shoes , and ceramics are the major industrial products of the city .
 History 
Asmara grew from four villages founded in the twelfth century .
It is said that there were four clans living in the Asmara area .
The women of these tribes told them men to join together to fight bandits who had been attacking the area .
After they defeated the bandits , a new name was given to the place , Arbaete Asmara .
This name , in the Tigrinya language , meant the four females united .
Arbaete was later dropped and the name was made Asmara .
In 1889 , Asmara became an Italian colony .
It was made the capital of the country in 1897 and was called Asmara italiana .
The city was damaged during earthquakes in 1913 and 1915 .
During the 1930s , the Italians made many chances to how Asmara looked .
Many new buildings were created during this time .
These buildings were built in the same style as Italian buildings .
This gave Asmara the look of an Italian city .
Today many of the buildings and stores in Asmara still have Italian names .
During World War II , after the defeat of Italy in Africa , Asmara was under British rule .
In 1952 , the United Nations placed the country and Asmara under Ethiopian control .
In the 1960s , the Eritrean people started fighting for independence from Ethiopia .
This bloody war lasted until 1991 .
Asmara was given back to the Eritrean people on May 24 , 1991 .
In July 2017 Asmara has been declared World Heritage Site by the UNESCO .
 Summary 
Barcelona ( BAR-sə-LOH-nə , Catalan : [bəɾsəˈlonə] , Spanish : [baɾθeˈlona]) is a city in Spain .
It is the capital and largest city of Catalonia , as well as the second most populous municipality of Spain .
With a population of 1 .6 million within city limits , its urban area extends to numerous neighbouring municipalities within the Province of Barcelona and is home to around 4 .8 million people , making it the sixth most populous urban area in the European Union after Paris , London , Madrid , the Ruhr area and Milan .
Basketball is a handball game usually played by two teams of five players on the court .
The game is played between men's teams or between women's teams .
 Summary 
Berbere (Amharic : በርበሬ bärbäre , Tigrinya : በርበረ bärbärä) is a spice mixture whose constituent elements usually include chili peppers , garlic , ginger , basil , korarima , rue , ajwain or radhuni , nigella , and fenugreek .
It is a key ingredient in the cuisines of Ethiopia and Eritrea .
Berbere sometimes encompasses herbs and spices that are less well known internationally .
The latter include both cultivated plants and those that grow wild in Ethiopia , such as korarima (Aframomum corrorima) and long pepper .
 See also 
Mitmita , another Ethiopian spice mixture
Piri piri
List of Ethiopian dishes and foods
Seasoning
 Summary 
 Summary 
Climate change means the difference in the Earth's global climate or in regional climates over time .
It describes changes in the state of the atmosphere over time scales ranging from decades to millions of years .
These changes can be caused by processes inside the Earth , forces from outside (e .g .
variations in sunlight intensity) or , more recently , human activities .
Ice ages are prominent examples .
Climate change is any significant long-term change in the expected patterns of average weather of a region (or the whole Earth) over a significant period of time .
Climate change is about abnormal variations to the climate , and the effects of these variations on other parts of the Earth .
Examples include melting of the ice caps at the South Pole and North Pole .
These changes may take tens , hundreds or perhaps millions of years .
In recent usage , especially in the context of environmental policy , climate change usually refers to changes in modern climate (see global warming) .
Some people have suggested trying to keep Earth’s temperature increase below two degrees Celsius , or 3 .6 degrees Fahrenheit .
On February 7 , 2018 ,  The Washington Post reported on a study by scientists in Germany .
The study said that if the world built all of the coal plants that were currently planned , carbon dioxide levels would rise so much that the world would not be able to keep the temperature increase below this limit .
 Summary 
Coal is a black hard rock which can be burned as a solid fossil fuel .
It is mostly carbon but also contains hydrogen , sulphur , oxygen and nitrogen .
It is a sedimentary rock formed from peat , by the pressure of rocks laid down later on top .
The harder forms of coal , such as anthracite , are metamorphic rocks , which means they were changed by very high temperature and pressure .
Peat , and therefore coal , is formed from the remains of plants which lived millions of years ago in tropical wetlands , such as those of the late Carboniferous period (the Pennsylvanian) .
Also wood heated in an airless space can make charcoal , which is like coal .
Coal can be burned for energy or heat .
About two-thirds of the coal mined today is burned in power stations to make electricity .
But few new coal-fired (coal burning) power stations are being built .
This is because burning coal gives off pollution , like dirty air , and a lot of carbon dioxide which makes global warming .
 History 
 Summary 
A coffee ceremony (Amharic : ቡና ማፍላት , translit .
bunna maflat) is a ritualized form of making and drinking coffee .
The coffee ceremony was first practiced  in Ethiopia and Eritrea .
There is a routine of serving coffee on a daily basis , mainly for the purpose of getting together with relatives , neighbors , or other visitors .
If coffee is politely declined , then tea (Chai) will most likely be served .
Loose grass is spread on the floor where the coffee ceremony is held , often decorated with small yellow flowers .
Composite flowers are sometimes used , especially around the celebration of Meskel .
 Brewing 
The ceremony is typically performed by the woman of the household and is considered an honor .
The coffee is brewed by first roasting the green coffee beans over an open flame in a pan .
This is followed by the grinding of the beans , traditionally in a wooden mortar and pestle .
The coffee grounds are then put into a special vessel which contain boiled water and will be left on an open flame a couple of minutes until it is well mixed with the hot water .
After grinding , the coffee is put through a sieve several times .
The boiling pot (jebena) is usually made of pottery and has a spherical base , a neck and pouring spout , and a handle where the neck connects with the base .
The jebena also has a straw lid .
 Summary 
 Summary 
The culture of Eritrea is the collective cultural heritage of the various populations native to Eritrea .
It shares historic commonalities with the traditions of Ethiopia , Somalia , Djibouti and Sudan .
The local culture consists of various , and often quite similar , traditions practiced by the nation's many Cushitic and Ethiopian Semitic-speaking Afro-Asiatic ethnic groups , in addition to those practiced by the area's Nilotic minorities .
 Coffee ceremony 
One of the most recognizable parts of Eritrean culture is the coffee ceremony .
Coffee (Ge'ez ቡን būn) is offered when visiting friends , during festivities , or as a daily staple of life .
If coffee is politely declined then most likely tea ("shai" ሻሂ shahee) will be served .
The coffee is brewed by first roasting the green coffee beans over hot coals gughin a brazier .
Once the beans are roasted each participant is given an opportunity to sample the aromatic smoke by wafting it towards them .
The coffee roasting smoke are sometimes used to fill the rooms with a pleasant scent .
This is followed by the grinding of the beans , traditionally in a wooden mortar and pestle .
The coffee grounds are then put into a special vessel , called a jebena , and boiled .
A jebena is usually made of clay and has a spherical base , a neck and pouring spout and a handle where the neck connects with the base .
When the coffee boils up through the neck it is poured in and out of another container to cool it , and then is put back into the jebena until it happens again .
To pour the coffee from the jebena a filter made from horsehair or other material is placed in the spout of the jebena to prevent the grounds from escaping .
The host pours the coffee for all participants by moving the tilted jebena over a tray with small , handleless cups (finjal) without stop until each cup is full .
One extra cup is poured each time .
The grounds are brewed four times : the first round of coffee is called awel , the second kale'i , the third bereka ('to be blessed')and the fourth is called "dereja" .
However , the "dereja" is not always poured , it is mostly poured when elders are present .
The coffee ceremony may also include burning of various traditional incense such as frankincense or gum arabic .
 Summary 
The Danakil Desert is a desert in northeast Ethiopia , southern Eritrea , and northwestern Djibouti .
Situated in the Afar Triangle , it stretches across 136 ,956 square kilometres (52 ,879 sq mi) of arid terrain .
The area is known for its volcanoes and extreme heat , with daytime temperatures surpassing 50 °C (122 °F) .
Less than an inch of rainfall occurs each year .
The Danakil Desert is one of the lowest and hottest places on Earth .
It is inhabited by a few Afar , who engage in salt mining .
 Geology 
Local geology is characterized by volcanic and tectonic activity , various climate cycles , and discontinuous erosion .
The basic geological structure of this area was caused by the movement of tectonic plates as Africa moved away from Asia .
Mountain chains formed and were eroded again during the Paleozoic .
Inundations by the sea caused the formation of layers of sandstone , and limestone was deposited further offshore .
As the land rose again , further sandstone formed above the limestone .
Further tectonic shifts caused lava to pour out of cracks and cover the sedimentary deposits .The Danakil Desert has a number of lakes formed by lava flows that dammed up several valleys .
Among these is Lake Afrera , which has thick saline crusts on its banks .
The area is flanked toward the east by the Danakil Alps , a tabular mountain system that has a few volcanic cones which peak in height in Mount Ramlo (2 ,130 metres (7 ,000 ft)) .
A deposit of salt up to 800 metres (2 ,600 ft) thick can also be found in the Salt Plain flatlands .
Other local lakes include Lake Asale (116 metres (381 ft) below sea level) and Lake Giuletti/Afrera (80 metres (260 ft) below sea level) , both of which possess cryptodepressions in the Danakil Depression .
The Afrera contains many active volcanoes , including the Maraho , Dabbahu , Afdera and Erta Ale .
Developmental Milestones .
What are developmental milestones ?
Developmental milestones are physical or behavioral signs of development of infants and children . Rolling over , crawling , walking , and talking are considered developmental milestones and provide important information regarding your child 's early development .
The milestones are different for each age range . These milestones are behaviors that emerge over time , forming the building blocks for growth and continued learning . Some of the categories of behavior include the following .
Cognition : Thinking , reasoning , problem - solving and understanding .
Motor coordination : Gross or fine motor skills , jumping , hopping , throwing or catching , drawing and stacking .
Social interaction : Initiating peer contact and group play .
Adaptive : Dressing , eating , and washing .
You child 's doctor will address all milestones during well - child visits ; however , if you have any developmental concerns at any point , you should contact your child 's physician to discuss your concerns .
Children develop at their own pace , so don 't be alarmed if your child takes a slightly different course .
Important milestones of your baby by two months . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : begins to smile at people , can briefly calm himself ( may bring hands to mouth and suck on hand ) , tries to look at parent .
Language and Communication : coos , makes gurgling sounds , turns head toward sounds .
Cognitive : pays attention to faces , begins to follow things with eyes and recognize people at a distance , begins to act bored if activity doesn 't change .
Movement and Physical Development : can hold head up and begins to push up when lying on tummy . Makes smoother movements with arms and legs .
Important milestones of your baby by four months . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : He smiles spontaneously , especially at people . He likes to play with people and might cry when playing stops . He copies some movements and facial expressions , like smiling or frowning .
Language and Communication : He Begins to babble  and babbles with expression and copies sounds he hears . He cries in different ways to show hunger , pain , or being tired .
Cognitive : He lets you know if he is happy or sad and responds to affection . He reaches for toy with one hand , uses hands and eyes together , such as seeing a toy and reaching for it . He follows moving things with eyes from side to side . He watches faces closely and recognizes familiar people and things at a distance .
Movement and Physical Development : He holds his head steady , unsupported and pushes down on legs when feet are on a hard surface . He may be able to roll over from tummy to back . He also can hold a toy and shake it and swing at dangling toys . He brings hands to mouth and when lying on stomach , pushes up to elbows .
Important milestones of your baby by six months . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : He knows familiar faces and begins to know if someone is a stranger . He likes to play with others , especially parents and responds to other people 's emotions and often seems happy . He also likes to look at himself in a mirror .
Language and Communication : He responds to sounds by making sounds and strings vowels together when babbling ( ah , eh , oh ) and likes taking turns with parent while making sounds . He responds to own name , makes sounds to show joy and displeasure , and begins to say consonant sounds ( jabbering with m , b ) .
Cognitive : He looks around at things nearby and brings things to mouth . He also shows curiosity about things and tries to get things that are out of reach . He begins to pass things from one hand to the other .
Movement and Physical Development : He rolls over in both directions ( front to back or back to front ) . Begins to sit without support . When standing , he supports weight on legs and might bounce . He rocks back and forth , sometimes crawling backward before moving forward .
Important milestones of your baby by nine months . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : He may be afraid of strangers and clings with familiar adults . He has favorite toys .
Language and Communication : He understands “ no ”   and makes a lot of different sounds like mama and baba . He copies sounds and gestures of others and uses fingers to point at things .
Cognitive : He watches the path of something as it falls and looks for things he sees you hide . He plays peek - a - boo game . He puts things in his mouth . He moves things smoothly from one hand to the other and picks up things like a coin between thumb and index finger .
Movement and Physical Development : He stands holding on and can get into sitting position . He sits without support ,  pulls to stand and crawls .
Important milestones of your baby by one year . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : He is shy or nervous with strangers and cries when mom or dad leaves . He has favorite things and people and hands you a book when he wants to hear a story . He shows fear in some situations . He repeats sounds or actions to get attention . Moreover , He puts out arm or leg to help with dressing and plays games such as peek - a - boo and pat - a - cake .
Language and Communication : He responds to simple spoken requests . He uses simple gestures , like shaking head “ no ”  or waving “ bye - bye ” . He makes sounds with changes in tone and tries to say words you say .
Cognitive : He explores things in different ways , like shaking , banging , throwing , finds hidden things easily and looks at the right picture or thing when it 's named . In addition , He copies gestures , starts to use things correctly ; for example , drinks from a cup , brushes hair .  He also bangs two things together , puts things in a container and takes things out of a container and lets things go without help . He pokes with index finger and follows simple directions like “ pick up the toy ”  .
Movement and Physical Development : He gets to a sitting position without help , pulls up to stand , walks holding on to furniture . He may take a few steps without holding on or may stand alone .
Important milestones of your baby by one year and six months . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : He likes to hand things to others as play . He may have temper tantrums , be afraid of strangers . He shows affection to familiar people , plays simple pretend , such as feeding a doll and points to show others something interesting . He explores alone but with parent close by , but may cling to caregivers in new situations .
Language and Communication : He says several single words and he says and shakes head “ no ” . He also points to show someone what he wants .
Cognitive : He knows what ordinary things are for ; for example , telephone , brush , spoon . He points to get the attention of others and shows interest in a doll or stuffed animal by pretending to feed . He points to one body part and scribbles on his own . He can follow one - step verbal commands without any gestures ; for example , sits when you say “ sit down ” .
Movement and Physical Development : he walks alone and may walk up steps and run . He pulls toys while walking . He can help undress himself . He drinks from a cup and eats with a spoon .
Important milestones of your baby by two years . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : He copies others , especially adults and older children and gets excited when with other children . He shows more and more independence and defiant behavior ( doing what he has been told not to do ) . he plays mainly beside other children , but is beginning to include other children , such as in chase games .
Language and Communication : He points to things or pictures when they are named and knows names of familiar people and body parts . He says sentences with two to four words and follows simple instructions . He also repeats words overheard in conversation and points to things in a book .
Cognitive : he finds things even when hidden under two or three covers , begins to sort shapes and colors , completes sentences and rhymes in familiar books and builds towers of four or more blocks . He might use one hand more than the other . He follows two - step instructions such as “ Pick up your shoes and put them in the closet . ” He names items in a picture book such as a cat , bird , or dog .
Movement and Physical Development : He stands on tiptoe , kicks a ball and  begins to run . He climbs onto and down from furniture without help and walks up and down stairs holding on . He throws ball overhand . He also makes or copies straight lines and circles .
Important milestones of your baby by three years . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : He copies adults and friends , shows affection for friends without prompting , takes turns in games and shows concern for crying friend . He understands the idea of “ mine ” and “ his ”  or  “ hers ” and shows a wide range of emotions . He separates easily from mom and dad  but may get upset with major changes in routine . He dresses and undresses himself .
Language and Communication : He follows instructions with 2 or 3 steps , can name most familiar things , understands words like “ in , ”   “ on , ” and “ under ” . He says first name , age , and sex and names a friend . He says words like “ I , ” “ me , ” “ we , ” and “ you ” and some plurals ( cars , dogs , cats ) . He talks well enough for strangers to understand most of the time and carries on a conversation using 2 to 3 sentences .
Cognitive : He can work toys with buttons and moving parts , does puzzles with 3 or 4 pieces , and understands what “ two ” means . He copies a circle with pencil or crayon , turns book pages one at a time , builds towers of more than 6 blocks and screws and unscrews jar lids or turns door handle .
Movement and Physical Development : He climbs well , runs easily , pedals a tricycle and walks up and down stairs , one foot on each step .
Important milestones of your baby by four years . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : He enjoys doing new things , plays “ Mom ” and “ Dad ” , would rather play with other children than by himself and cooperates with other children . He talks about what he likes and what he is interested in .
Language and Communication : He knows some basic rules of grammar , such as correctly using “ he ” and “ she ” . He sings a song or says a poem from memory and tells stories . He can also say his first and last name .
Cognitive : He names some colors and some numbers , understands the idea of counting , starts to understand time and remembers parts of a story . He also understands the idea of “ same ” and “ different ” , draws a person with 2 to 4 body parts and uses scissors . He starts to copy some capital letters , plays board or card games and tells you what he thinks is going to happen next in a book .
Movement and Physical Development : He hops and stands on one foot up to 2 seconds , catches a bounced ball most of the time , pours , cuts with supervision , and mashes his own food .
Important milestones of your baby by five years . What most babies do by this age ?
Social and Emotional : He wants to please friends and be like friends . He is more likely to agree with rules , likes to sing , dance , and act and is aware of gender . He shows more independence ( for example , may visit a next - door neighbour by himself ) but adult supervision is still needed . He is sometimes demanding and sometimes very cooperative .
Language and Communication : He speaks very clearly , tells a simple story using full sentences . He uses future tense ; for example , “ Grandma will be here . ” and says name and address .
Cognitive : He counts 10 or more things and he can draw a person with at least 6 body parts and print some letters or numbers . He is able to copy a triangle and other geometric shapes and knows about things used every day , like money and food .
Movement and Physical Development : He stands on one foot for 10 seconds or longer , hops ; may be able to skip . He can do a somersault . He uses a fork and spoon and sometimes a table knife . He can use the toilet on his own and he can swing and climb .
 Summary 
An electric vehicle is a vehicle that uses electricity to move .
Its wheels are driven by electric motors .
Electric vehicles were one of the first kinds that did not use horse or human power .
Electric trains and cars were built in the 1830's , and in the early 1900's there were more electric cars than gasoline-powered cars .
But cars powered by gasoline or diesel fuel become the most common kind of car for most of the last 100 years .
Electric vehicles have long been used in some special cases , such as forklifts used inside a building , golf carts , trolley bus or certain vehicles used around airplanes at an airport .
Early in the 21st century people are looking at electric and hybrid vehicles again as a way to reduce pollution and use less gasoline .
Hi Tigrinya speakers ! Unfortunately I can only say "salam" and "tsegem yelen" in Tigrinya , but I am excited to see it digitised . I am a Director at Travis Foundation and have been part of the team since we started . I'm from Australia and have lived in the Netherlands for a year now . I can't wait to share some ideas and our progress with you , thanks for being a part of our group .
 Summary 
Emergency medical services (EMS) , also known as ambulance services or paramedic services , are emergency services which treat illnesses and injuries that require an urgent medical response , providing out-of-hospital treatment and transport to definitive care .
 Summary 
Eritrean Americans are Americans who are of Eritrean ancestry .
As of 2013 , there are 33 ,930 Eritrean-born citizens living in the U .S .
 Demographics 
The exact number of Eritrean residents in the United States is unknown because Eritreans were Ethiopian nationals prior to Eritrea's independence in the early 1990s .
According to the U .S . Census Bureau , approximately 18 ,917 people reported Eritrean ancestry in 2000 .
Between 2007 and 2011 , there were approximately 25 ,848 Eritrea-born residents in the country .
California had the most Eritrean-born people , at 4 ,782 residents , followed by Virginia (3 ,417) , Texas (2 ,693) , and Maryland (1 ,902) .Most Eritrean immigrants are concentrated in Washington D .C . ,Arizona and California , especially the San Francisco Bay Area .
The community also has a notable presence in the Seattle , Columbus , Minneapolis , Chicago , New York , Atlanta , Houston , Denver and Dallas metropolitan areas .
 Summary 
Eritrean literature in the Tigrinya language dates , as far as is known , from the late 19th century but Ge'ez writings have been found in the 4th century b .c .
It was initially encouraged by European
missionaries , but suffered from the general repression of Eritrean culture under Fascist rule in the 1920s and 30s .
The earliest published works were primarily translations or collections of traditional poems , fables and folktales , but the renaissance of Eritrean culture promoted by the British administrators after 1942 included the appearance of the first novels in Tigrinya .
 Origins 
Between the fourth and eleventh centuries AD , the Ge'ez language was the main language of the Axumite empire , and for some time thereafter it remained the language of literature .
This literature , shared between Eritrea and Ethiopia , consisted mainly of historical tales about royalty and noblemen ; ecclesiastical works , often in translation ; and religious poetry .
Ge'ez passed down to modern Tigrinya the Ge'ez alphabet and a substantial vocabulary .The continued dominance of Ge'ez as a literary language after it was supplanted by Tigrinya as a demotic tongue means that very little is known of 'low' literature prior to the arrival of European missionaries in the 19th century .
The first work published in Tigrinya was a translation of the Gospels , written in the 1830s and published in 1866 .
European missionaries were responsible for a stream of publications from the 1890s onwards , including the first Tigrinya language newspaper in 1909 .
 Summary 
Eritrea is a country on the eastern coast of Africa .
Its official name is The State of Eritrea .
 Geography 
Eritrea is located on the coast on the Red Sea .
It is north of the Bab-el-Mandeb and the Horn of Africa .
Eritrea has borders with the countries of Sudan , Ethiopia , and Djibouti .
The land area of Eritrea is 101 ,000 km² , and it is one of the smallest countries in Africa .
 Culture 
The population of Eritrea is about 5 .6 million .
About 0 .5 million people live in Asmara .
People from Eritrea are called Eritreans .
Most of them speak Tigrinya or Tigre as their first language .
The people usually use Tigrinya or Arabic for official business .
Eritrea has nine ethnic groups .
These are the Afar people , the Bilen people , the Hedareb people , the Kunama , the Nara , the Rashaida , the Saho , the Tigre , and Tigray-Tigrinya .
The currency of Eritrea is called the Nakfa .
Eritrea is a very poor country .
Almost half of Eritrea's economy comes from Eritreans who live abroad .
They send money home to their families .
Most of the rest comes from farming .
Football and cycling are the most popular sports in Eritrea .
In recent years , Eritrean athletes have also seen increasing success in the international arena .
 History 
Eritrea became an independent country on 24 May 1993 .
It is one of the newest countries in the world .
Many different countries have ruled the land that is now called Eritrea .
Between 1885 and 1941 it was a colony of Italy .
Between 1941 and 1952 , the United Nations put it under the protection of United Kingdom .
After 1952 , Eritrea became a part of Ethiopia .
This was the reason for a long civil war between the Eritreans and the government of Ethiopia .
Eventually , in 1993 , Eritrea became an independent country after a vote by its people .
 Government 
Eritrea is known for being the most oppressive country in Africa , sometimes considered to be the "North Korea of Africa" .
The nation has been accused of many human rights violations , severely limited freedoms , and many arbitrary (made-up) arrests .
 Summary 
Ethiopia is a country in the Horn of Africa .
It has one of the longest and most well known histories as a country in Africa and the world .
Ethiopia was one of the few countries in Africa that escaped the Scramble for Africa .
It avoided being colonized , except for five years when it was ruled by Italians .
Ethiopia used to be called Abyssinia .
The word "Ethiopia" is from the Greek word Αἰθιοπία meaning sun light burned face .
First Aid .
First aid is the assistance given to any person suffering a sudden illness or injury , with care provided to preserve life , prevent the condition from worsening , or to promote recovery . It includes initial intervention in a serious condition prior to professional medical help being available , such as performing CPR while awaiting an ambulance , as well as the complete treatment of minor conditions , such as applying a plaster to a cut . First aid is generally performed by the layperson , with many people trained in providing basic levels of first aid , and others willing to do so from acquired knowledge . Mental health first aid is an extension of the concept of first aid to cover mental health .
There are many situations which may require first aid , and many countries have legislation , regulation , or guidance which specifies a minimum level of first aid provision in certain circumstances . This can include specific training or equipment to be available in the workplace , the provision of specialist first aid cover at public gatherings , or mandatory first aid training within schools . First aid , however , does not necessarily require any particular equipment or prior knowledge , and can involve improvisation with materials available at the time , often by untrained persons .
Aims .
The key aims of first aid can be summarized in four key points , sometimes known as the three accidents .
Preserve life : The overriding aim of all medical care which includes first aid , is to save lives and minimize the threat of death  .
Prevent further harm : Prevent further harm also sometimes called prevent the condition from worsening , or danger of further injury , this covers both external factors , such as moving a patient away from any cause of harm , and applying first aid techniques to prevent worsening of the condition , such as applying pressure to stop a bleed becoming dangerous .
Promote recovery : First aid also involves trying to start the recovery process from the illness or injury , and in some cases might involve completing a treatment , such as in the case of applying a plaster to a small wound .
First aid help to stop the unwanted injuries to be a big cause by providing the medical aid for instance the bandage , some kind of medicines , liquids to stop the clotting of blood and tubes for burns .
Key skills .
Certain skills are considered essential to the provision of first aid and are taught ubiquitously . Particularly the ABC 's of first aid , which focus on critical life - saving intervention , must be rendered before treatment of less serious injuries . ABC stands for Airway , Breathing , and Circulation . The same mnemonic is used by all emergency health professionals . Attention must first be brought to the airway to ensure it is clear . Choking is a life-threatening emergency . Following evaluation of the airway , a first aid attendant would determine adequacy of breathing and provide rescue breathing if necessary . Assessment of circulation is now not usually carried out for patients who are not breathing , with first aiders now trained to go straight to chest compressions but pulse checks may be done on less serious patients .Some organizations add a fourth step of D for Deadly bleeding or Defibrillation , while others consider this as part of the Circulation step . Variations on techniques to evaluate and maintain the ABCs depend on the skill level of the first aider . Once the ABCs are secured , first aiders can begin additional treatments , as required . Some organizations teach the same order of priority using the 3Bs : Breathing , Bleeding , and Bones . While the ABCs and 3Bs are taught to be performed sequentially , certain conditions may require the consideration of two steps simultaneously . This includes the provision of both artificial respiration and chest compressions to someone who is not breathing and has no pulse , and the consideration of cervical spine injuries when ensuring an open airway .
First aid services .
Some people undertake specific training in order to provide first aid at public or private events , during filming , or other places where people gather . They may be designated as a first aider , or use some other title . This role may be undertaken on a voluntary basis or as paid employment with a medical contractor .
People performing a first aid role , whether in a professional or voluntary capacity , are often expected to have a high level of first aid training and are often uniformed .
Conditions that often require first aid .
Altitude sickness , which can begin in susceptible people at altitudes as high as 5 ,000 feet , can cause potentially fatal swelling of the brain or lungs . Anaphylaxis , a life-threatening condition in which the airway can become constricted and the patient may go into shock . The reaction can be caused by a systemic allergic reaction to allergens such as insect bites or peanuts . Anaphylaxis is initially treated with injection of epinephrine . Battlefield first aid — This protocol refers to treating shrapnel , gunshot wounds , burns , bone fractures , etc . as seen either in the traditional battlefield setting or in an area subject to damage by large - scale weaponry , such as a bomb blast . Bone fracture , a break in a bone initially treated by stabilizing the fracture with a splint . Burns , which can result in damage to tissues and loss of body fluids through the burn site . Choking , blockage of the airway which can quickly result in death due to lack of oxygen if the patient 's trachea is not cleared , for example by the Heimlich Maneuver . Childbirth . Cramps in muscles due to lactic acid build up caused either by inadequate oxygenation of muscle or lack of water or salt . Diving disorders , drowning or asphyxiation . Gender - specific conditions , such as dysmenorrhea and testicular torsion . Heart attack , or inadequate blood flow to the blood vessels supplying the heart muscle . Heat stroke , also known as sunstroke or hyperthermia , which tends to occur during heavy exercise in high humidity , or with inadequate water , though it may occur spontaneously in some chronically ill persons . Sunstroke , especially when the victim has been unconscious , often causes major damage to body systems such as brain , kidney , liver , gastric tract . Unconsciousness for more than two hours usually leads to permanent disability . Emergency treatment involves rapid cooling of the patient . Hair tourniquet a condition where a hair or other thread becomes tied around a toe or finger tightly enough to cut off blood flow . Heat syncope , another stage in the same process as heat stroke , occurs under similar conditions as heat stroke and is not distinguished from the latter by some authorities . Heavy bleeding , treated by applying pressure to the wound site and elevating the limb if possible . Hyperglycemia and Hypoglycemia . Hypothermia , or Exposure , occurs when a person 's core body temperature falls below 33 .7 ° C . First aid for a mildly hypothermic patient includes rewarming , which can be achieved by wrapping the affected person in a blanket , and providing warm drinks , such as soup , and high energy food , such as chocolate . However , rewarming a severely hypothermic person could result in a fatal arrhythmia , an irregular heart rhythm . Insect and animal bites and stings . Joint dislocation . Poisoning , which can occur by injection , inhalation , absorption , or ingestion . Seizures , or a malfunction in the electrical activity in the brain .
Muscle strains and Sprains , a temporary dislocation of a joint that immediately reduces automatically but may result in ligament damage . Stroke , a temporary loss of blood supply to the brain . Toothache , which can result in severe pain and loss of the tooth but is rarely life - threatening , unless over time the infection spreads into the bone of the jaw and starts osteomyelitis . Wounds and bleeding , including lacerations , incisions and abrasions , Gastrointestinal bleeding , avulsions and Sucking chest wounds , treated with an occlusive dressing to let air out but not in . Many accidents can happen at home , office , schools , laboratories etc . which require immediate attention before the patient is attended by the doctor .
Content .
There is no universally agreed upon list for the contents of a first aid kit . The UK Health and Safety Executive stress that the contents of workplace first aid kits will vary according to the nature of the work activities . As an example of possible contents of a kit , British Standard First Aid Kits for the Workplace lists the following items .First aid guidance leaflet , medium sterile dressings , large sterile dressings , triangular dressings , safety pins , adhesive dressings , sterile wet wipes , microporous tape , sterile gloves , face shield , foil blanket , burn dressings , clothing shears , conforming bandages , finger dressing .
 Summary 
Fit-fit or fir-fir (Ge'ez : ፍርፍር firfir ; ፍትፍት fitfit) is an Eritrean and Ethiopian food typically served for breakfast .
It is generally made with shredded flat bread , spiced clarified butter (called niter kibbeh in Amharic or tesmi in Tigrinya) , and the hot spice berbere .
There are two major varieties of fit-fit depending on the type of flat bread being used : the sour-dough injera (or taita) and the unleavened kitcha (kita in Amharic) .
 Injera fit-fit 
Injera fit-fit (var .
enjera fetfet ; also taita fit-fit in Tigrinya) is a combination of shredded injera , berbere , onions , and clarified butter .
Variations on this basic recipe are common in which the name of the additional item is commonly used as a prefix .
For instance , if one were to add shiro (chickpeas puree) , the resulting dish would be called shiro fit-fit .
If one were to add broth (mereq) it would be called mereq fit-fit .
In Eritrea , leftover meat-sauces (zighni or tsebhi) are often added to injera fit-fit and served with raw chili-peppers and yoghurt on the side , for breakfast .
While similarly in Ethiopia , left-over wat as  the main ingredient along with injera .
Injera fit-fit can be eaten with either a spoon when served in a bowl or eaten with the right hand when served atop of another piece of injera as is typical in Ethiopian or Eritrean cuisine .
 Summary 
Genfo (Amharic : ገንፎ , gänəfo ; Tigrinya : ጛኣት , ga'atə) is a stiff porridge-like substance that is normally formed into bite-size ball , dipped into a mixture of butter and red peppers , or pulses such as sunflower , seed , nut (Carthamus tinctorius) and flax (Linum usitatissimum) during Lent or Ramadan , where it is consumed .Genfo is made with barley or wheat flour .
To cook genfo , the flour and water are combined and stirred continuously with a wooden spoon .
Genfo is presented in a large mound with a hole in the center , filled with a mixture of niter kibbeh and berbere .
This spicy combination is tempered with yogurt which balances the flavors .
The porridge may be eaten with the hands or with a utensil .
 See also 
List of African dishes
List of Ethiopian dishes and foods
List of porridges
Asida
 References 
 Summary 
Hamasien (Ge'ez ሓማሴን) was a historical province including and surrounding Asmara , part of modern Eritrea .
In 1996 the province was divided and distributed amongst the modern Maekel , Debub , Northern Red Sea , Gash-Barka , and Anseba regions .
Hamasien's population predominantly follow Oriental Orthodox Christianity and are members of the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahdo Church , with a considerable minority from the Sunni Muslim , Roman Catholic , and Lutheran communities .
Traditionally being the center of the Kebessa (the Eritrean Highlands) , it was the locality of the old palace town of Debarwa (the capital of Bahr Negus Yeshaq) .
The border was changed further to place Debarwa in the province of Seraye before its present status of being the capital of the Tselema district in the Debub (Southern) region .
 See also 
Provinces of Eritrea
 References 
Hapiness
In psychology , happiness is a mental or emotional state of well-being which can be defined by positive or pleasant emotions ranging from contentment to intense joy .Happy mental states may reflect judgements by a person about their overall well-being .
Since the 1960s , happiness research has been conducted in a wide variety of scientific disciplines , including gerontology , social psychology , clinical and medical research and happiness economics .
In philosophy , happiness is translated from the Greek concept of eudaimonia , and refers to the good life , or flourishing , as opposed to an emotion .
Happiness is a fuzzy concept . Some related concepts include well-being , quality of life , flourishing , and contentment .
In philosophy and (western) religion , happiness may be defined in terms of living a good life , or flourishing , rather than simply as an emotion . Happiness in this sense was used to translate the Greek eudaimonia , and is still used in virtue ethics . There has been a transition over time from emphasis on the happiness of virtue to the virtue of happiness .
In psychology , happiness is a mental or emotional state of well-being which can be defined by , among others , positive or pleasant emotions ranging from contentment to intense joy .Since the turn of the millennium , psychologists have increasingly become interested in developing an approach to human flourishing . This is seen prominently in the work of Martin Seligman , Ed Diener and Ruut Veenhoven , and in the international developmental and medical research of Paul Anand .
In fact , happiness may be said to be a relative concept ; the source of happiness for one person might not be the source of happiness for another .
Philosophy
Main article : Philosophy of happiness
In the Nicomachean Ethics , written in 350 BCE , Aristotle stated that happiness (also being well and doing well) is the only thing that humans desire for its own sake , unlike riches , honour , health or friendship . He observed that men sought riches , or honour , or health not only for their own sake but also in order to be happy . Note that eudaimonia , the term we translate as "happiness" , is for Aristotle an activity rather than an emotion or a state .Thus understood , the happy life is the good life , that is , a life in which a person fulfills human nature in an excellent way . Specifically , Aristotle argues that the good life is the life of excellent rational activity . He arrives at this claim with the Function Argument . Basically , if it's right , every living thing has a function , that which it uniquely does . For humans , Aristotle contends , our function is to reason , since it is that alone that we uniquely do . And performing one's function well , or excellently , is good . Thus , according to Aristotle , the life of excellent rational activity is the happy life . Aristotle does not leave it at that , however . He argues that there is a second best life for those incapable of excellent rational activity . This second best life is the life of moral virtue .
Many ethicists make arguments for how humans should behave , either individually or collectively , based on the resulting happiness of such behavior . Utilitarians , such as John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham , advocated the greatest happiness principle as a guide for ethical behavior .
Friedrich Nietzsche savagely critiqued the English Utilitarians' focus on attaining the greatest happiness , stating that "Man does not strive for happiness , only the Englishman does ." Nietzsche meant that making happiness one's ultimate goal and the aim of one's existence , in his words "makes one contemptible ." Nietzsche instead yearned for a culture that would set higher , more difficult goals than "mere happiness ." He introduced the quasi-dystopic figure of the "last man" as a kind of thought experiment against the utilitarians and happiness-seekers . these small , "last men" who seek after only their own pleasure and health , avoiding all danger , exertion , difficulty , challenge , struggle are meant to seem contemptible to Nietzsche's reader . Nietzsche instead wants us to consider the value of what is difficult , what can only be earned through struggle , difficulty , pain and thus to come to see the affirmative value suffering and unhappiness truly play in creating everything of great worth in life , including all the highest achievements of human culture , not least of all philosophy .
Human rights
In law , human rights is the idea that all people should have rights :
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights .
Every person has all of these rights , it is not possible to only grant some of them :
History
freedom of speech
freedom of assembly
freedom to do what a person wishes if it does not harm others (even if other people think it is bad)
own property
make contracts with other people
make moral promises to people
live with anyone
get protection from laws
have a voice in government
Laws
List of human rights
Fundamental rights
Right to live
To be a citizen of a country
Right to housing
To own property
Safety
Safety from violence (Physical , Mental and Sexual)
To seek asylum if a country treats you badly
The right to get an education
 Summary 
Traditionally made out of teff flour , it is the national dish of Ethiopia and Eritrea .
Content of the integration exams
In the integration exam , DUO checks whether you know enough about the Netherlands and also whether you speak Dutch well enough .
Participation statement
You do all the learning for the participation statement at the municipality . You learn what is important in the Netherlands : freedom , everyone being equal , helping each other and democracy . The municipality tells you what you need to do . The participation statement does not involve taking an exam at DUO . More on the participation statement .
Writing
You do the Writing exam with pen and paper . This can involve writing a short letter , for instance , or filling out a form . The exam lasts 35 minutes .
As of May 2018 , the Writing exam has changed . A new type of assignment has been introduced . You will be asked to write something about yourself . For example , about your home . Oefenexamen schrijven 5 on the Practicing the integration exam page is example of the new exam . At the end of 2018 , you’ll no longer have to finish sentences as part of the exam . The exam will then take 40 minutes .
Speaking
You do the Speaking exam on a computer . You will watch short films and answer questions . The exam lasts 35 minutes .
Listening
You do the Listening exam on a computer . You will answer questions about short films and you listen to texts . The exam lasts 45 minutes .
Reading
You do the Reading exam on a computer . You will read texts and also answer questions . The exam lasts 65 minutes .
Knowledge of Dutch Society
You do the Knowledge of Dutch Society exam on a computer . You will watch short films which can be about , for instance , shopping or going to the doctor . After each film you answer questions . The exam lasts 45 minutes .
Orientation on the Dutch Labour Market
The Orientation on the Dutch Labour Market exam is about working and looking for work . Read more about the Orientation on the Dutch Labour Market exam .
Is Cyber the Perfect Weapon ?
CAMBRIDGE – For years , political leaders such as former US Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta have warned of the danger of a “cyber Pearl Harbor .” We have known for some time that potential adversaries have installed malicious software in our electricity grid . Suddenly the power could go out in large regions , causing economic disruption , havoc , and death . Russia used such an attack in December 2015 in its hybrid warfare against Ukraine , though for only a few hours . Earlier , in 2008 , Russia used cyber attacks to disrupt the government of Georgia’s efforts to defend against Russian troops .
Thus far , however , cyber weapons seem to be more useful for signaling or sowing confusion than for physical destruction – more a support weapon than a means to clinch victory . Millions of intrusions into other countries’ networks occur each year , but only a half-dozen or so have done significant physical (as opposed to economic and political) damage . As Robert Schmidle , Michael Sulmeyer , and Ben Buchanan put it , “No one has ever been killed by a cyber capability .”
US doctrine is to respond to a cyber attack with any weapon , in proportion to the physical damage caused , based on the insistence that international law – including the right to self-defense – applies to cyber conflicts . Given that the lights have not gone out , maybe this deterrent posture has worked .
Then again , maybe we are looking in the wrong place , and the real danger is not major physical damage but conflict in the gray zone of hostility below the threshold of conventional warfare . In 2013 , Russian chief of the general staff Valery Gerasimov described a doctrine for hybrid warfare that blends conventional weapons , economic coercion , information operations , and cyber attacks .
The use of information to confuse and divide an enemy was widely practiced during the Cold War . What is new is not the basic model , but the high speed and low cost of spreading disinformation . Electrons are faster , cheaper , safer , and more deniable than spies carrying around bags of money and secrets .
If Russian President Vladimir Putin sees his country as locked in a struggle with the United States but is deterred from using high levels of force by the risk of nuclear war , then perhaps cyber is the “perfect weapon .” That is the title of an important new book by New York Times reporter David Sanger , who argues that beyond being “used to undermine more than banks , databases , and electrical grids ,” cyberattacks “can be used to fray the civic threads that hold together democracy itself .”
Russia’s cyber interference in the 2016 American presidential election was innovative . Not only did Russian intelligence agencies hack into the email of the Democratic National Committee and dribble out the results through Wikileaks and other outlets to shape the American news agenda ; they also used US-based social-media platforms to spread false news and galvanize opposing groups of Americans . Hacking is illegal , but using social media to sow confusion is not . The brilliance of the Russian innovation in information warfare was to combine existing technologies with a degree of deniability that remained just below the threshold of overt attack .
US intelligence agencies alerted President Barack Obama of the Russian tactics , and he warned Putin of adverse consequences when the two met in September 2016 . But Obama was reluctant to call out Russia publicly or to take strong actions for fear that Russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls and jeopardize the expected victory of Hillary Clinton . After the election , Obama went public and expelled Russian spies and closed some diplomatic facilities , but the weakness of the US response undercut any deterrent effect . And because President Donald Trump has treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration also failed to take strong steps .
Countering this new weapon requires a strategy to organize a broad national response that includes all government agencies and emphasizes more effective deterrence . Punishment can be meted out within the cyber domain by tailored reprisals , and across domains by applying stronger economic and personal sanctions . We also need deterrence by denial – making the attacker’s work more costly than the value of the benefits to be reaped .
There are many ways to make the US a tougher and more resilient target . Steps include training state and local election officials ; requiring a paper trail as a back-up to electronic voting machines ; encouraging campaigns and parties to improve basic cyber hygiene such as encryption and two-factor authentication ; working with companies to exclude social media bots ; requiring identification of the sources of political advertisements (as now occurs on television) ; outlawing foreign political advertising ; promoting independent fact-checking ; and improving the public’s media literacy . Such measures helped to limit the success of Russian intervention in the 2017 French presidential election .
Diplomacy might also play a role . Even when the US and the Soviet Union were bitter ideological enemies during the Cold War , they were able to negotiate agreements . Given the authoritarian nature of the Russian political system , it could be meaningless to agree not to interfere in Russian elections . Nonetheless , it might be possible to establish rules that limit the intensity and frequency of information attacks . During the Cold War , the two sides did not kill each other’s spies , and the Incidents at Sea Agreement limited the level of harassment involved in close naval surveillance . Today , such agreements seem unlikely , but they are worth exploring in the future .
Above all , the US must demonstrate that cyber attacks and manipulation of social media will incur costs and thus not remain the perfect weapon for warfare below the level of armed conflict .
Israel
State of Israel
Language : Hebrew and Arabic .
Flag : Centered menorah surrounded by two olive branches ,Centered blue star within a horizontal triband .
Emblem .
Anthem : " Hatikvah " ( Hebrew for " The Hope " ) .
Capital and largest city : Jerusalem (limited recognition ) .
Ethnic groups (2018) .
74 .5% Jewish .
20 .9% Arab .
4 .6% other .
Religion (2016) .
74 .7% Jewish .
17 .7% Muslim .
2 .0% Christian .
1 .6% Druze .
4 .0% other .
Government : Unitary parliamentary republic .
• President .
Reuven Rivlin .
• Prime Minister .
Benjamin Netanyahu .
• Knesset Speaker .
Yuli-Yoel Edelstein .
• Chief Justice .
Esther Hayut .
Independence Declared .
• Admission to UNO
• Population - 2018 estimate .
This article contains Hebrew and Arabic text . Without proper rendering support , you may see question marks , boxes , or other symbols .
Israel , officially the State of Israel , is a country in the Middle East , on the southeastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea and the northern shore of the Red Sea . It has land borders with Lebanon to the north , Syria to the northeast , Jordan on the east , the Palestinian territories of the West Bank and Gaza Strip to the east and west , respectively , and Egypt to the southwest . The country contains geographically diverse features within its relatively small area . Israel's economic and technological center is Tel Aviv , while its seat of government and proclaimed capital is Jerusalem , although the state's sovereignty over Jerusalem has only partial recognition .
The Kingdoms of Israel and Judah emerged during the Iron Age . The Neo-Assyrian Empire destroyed Israel around 720 BCE . Judah was later conquered by the Babylonian , Persian and Hellenistic empires and had existed as Jewish autonomous provinces . The successful Maccabean Revolt led to an independent Hasmonean kingdom by 110 BCE , which in 63 BCE however became a client state of the Roman Republic that subsequently installed the Herodian dynasty in 37 BCE , and in 6 CE created the Roman province of Judea . Judea lasted as a Roman province until the failed Jewish revolts resulted in widespread destruction , expulsion of Jewish population and the renaming of the region from Iudaea to Syria Palaestina . Jewish presence in the region has persisted to a certain extent over the centuries . In the 7th century the Levant was taken from the Byzantine Empire by the Arabs and remained in Muslim control until the First Crusade of 1099 , followed by the Ayyubid conquest of 1187 . The Mamluk Sultanate of Egypt extended its control over the Levant in the 13th century until its defeat by the Ottoman Empire in 1517 . During the 19th century , national awakening among Jews led to the establishment of the Zionist movement in the diaspora followed by waves of immigration to Ottoman and later British Palestine .
In 1947 , the United Nations adopted a Partition Plan for Palestine recommending the creation of independent Arab and Jewish states and an internationalized Jerusalem . The plan was accepted by the Jewish Agency , and rejected by Arab leaders . The following year , the Jewish Agency declared the independence of the State of Israel , and the subsequent 1948 Arab–Israeli War saw Israel's establishment over most of the former Mandate territory , while the West Bank and Gaza were held by neighboring Arab states . Israel has since fought several wars with Arab countries , and it has since 1967 occupied territories including the West Bank , Golan Heights and the Gaza Strip (still considered occupied after 2005 disengagement , although some legal experts dispute this claim) . It extended its laws to the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem , but not the West Bank . Israel's occupation of the Palestinian territories is the world's longest military occupation in modern times . Efforts to resolve the Israeli–Palestinian conflict have not resulted in final peace agreement . However , peace treaties between Israel and both Egypt and Jordan have been signed .
In its Basic Laws , Israel defines itself as a Jewish and democratic state . Israel is a representative democracy with a parliamentary system , proportional representation and universal suffrage . The prime minister is head of government and the Knesset is the legislature . Israel is a developed country and an OECD member , with the 33rd-largest economy in the world by nominal gross domestic product as of 2018 . The country benefits from a highly skilled workforce and is among the most educated countries in the world with one of the highest percentages of its citizens holding a tertiary education degree . Israel has the highest standard of living in the Middle East , and has one of the highest life expectancies in the world .
Italy
Italian Republic
Italy , officially the Italian Republic  is a sovereign state in Europe . Located in the heart of the Mediterranean Sea , Italy shares open land borders with France , Switzerland , Austria , Slovenia , San Marino and Vatican City . Italy covers an area of 301 ,338 km2  and has a largely temperate seasonal and Mediterranean climate . With around 61 million inhabitants , it is the fourth-most populous EU member state and the most populous in southern Europe .
Since classical times , ancient Phoenicians , Carthaginians and Greeks established settlements in the south of Italy , with Etruscans and Celts inhabiting the centre and the north of Italy respectively , and various ancient Italian tribes and Italic peoples dispersed throughout the Italian Peninsula and insular Italy . The Italic tribe known as the Latins formed the Roman Kingdom in the 8th century BC , which eventually became a republic that conquered and assimilated its neighbours . Ultimately , the Roman Empire emerged in the 1st century BC as the dominant power in the Mediterranean Basin and became the leading cultural , political and religious centre of Western civilisation . The legacy of the Roman Empire is widespread and can be observed in the global distribution of civilian law , republican governments , Christianity and the Latin script .
During the Early Middle Ages , Italy suffered sociopolitical collapse amid calamitous barbarian invasions , but by the 11th century numerous rival city-states and maritime republics , mainly in the northern and central regions of Italy , rose to great prosperity through shipping , commerce and banking , laying the groundwork for modern capitalism . These mostly independent statelets , acting as Europe's main spice trade hubs with Asia and the Near East , often enjoyed a greater degree of democracy than the larger feudal monarchies that were consolidating throughout Europe ; however , part of central Italy was under the control of the theocratic Papal States , while Southern Italy remained largely feudal until the 19th century , partially as a result of a succession of Byzantine , Arab , Norman , Angevin and Spanish conquests of the region .
The Renaissance began in Italy and spread to the rest of Europe , bringing a renewed interest in humanism , science , exploration and art . Italian culture flourished at this time , producing famous scholars , artists and polymaths , such as Michelangelo , Leonardo da Vinci , Raphael , Galileo and Machiavelli . Since the Middle Ages , Italian explorers such as Marco Polo , Christopher Columbus , Amerigo Vespucci , John Cabot and Giovanni da Verrazzano discovered new routes to the Far East and the New World , helping to usher in the European Age of Discovery . Nevertheless , Italy's commercial and political power significantly waned with the opening of trade routes which bypassed the Mediterranean . Furthermore , the Italian city-states constantly engaged one another in bloody warfare , culminating in the Italian Wars of the 15th and 16th centuries that left them exhausted , with none emerging as a dominant power . They soon fell victim to conquest by European powers such as France , Spain and Austria .
By the mid-19th century , a rising movement in support of Italian nationalism and independence from foreign control led to a period of revolutionary political upheaval . After centuries of foreign domination and political division , Italy was almost entirely unified in 1871 , creating a great power .From the late 19th century to the early 20th century , the new Kingdom of Italy rapidly industrialised , although mainly in the north , and acquired a colonial empire , while the south remained largely impoverished and excluded from industrialisation , fuelling a large and influential diaspora . Despite being one of the main victors in World War I , Italy entered a period of economic crisis and social turmoil , leading to the rise of a fascist dictatorship in 1922 . Participation in World War II on the Axis side ended in military defeat , economic destruction and the Italian Civil War . Following the liberation of Italy and the rise of the resistance , the country abolished the monarchy , reinstated democracy , enjoyed a prolonged economic boom and , despite periods of sociopolitical turmoils , became a major advanced country .
Today , Italy has the third largest nominal GDP in the Eurozone and the eighth largest in the world . As an advanced economy , the country has the sixth-largest worldwide national wealth , and it is ranked third for its central bank gold reserve . Italy has a very high level of human development , and it stands among the top countries for life expectancy . The country plays a prominent role in regional and global economic , military , cultural and diplomatic affairs , and it is both a regional power and a great power . Italy is a founding and leading member of the European Union and a member of numerous international institutions , including the UN , NATO , the OECD , the OSCE , the WTO , the G7 , the G20 , the Union for the Mediterranean , the Council of Europe , Uniting for Consensus , the Schengen Area and many more . As a reflection of its cultural wealth , Italy is home to 54 World Heritage Sites , the most in the world , and is the fifth-most visited country .
Main article : Name of Italy
Expansion of the territory known as Italy and the nearby islands from the establishment of the Roman Republic until Diocletian .
Hypotheses for the etymology of the name Italia are numerous . One is that it was borrowed via Greek from the Oscan Víteliú 'land of calves' . The bull was a symbol of the southern Italic tribes and was often depicted goring the Roman wolf as a defiant symbol of free Italy during the Social War . Greek historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus states this account together with the legend that Italy was named after Italus , mentioned also by Aristotle and Thucydides .
The name Italia originally applied only to a part of what is now Southern Italy , according to Antiochus of Syracuse , the southern portion of the Bruttium peninsula corresponding to the modern province of Reggio , and part of the provinces of Catanzaro and Vibo Valentia . But by his time Oenotria and Italy had become synonymous , and the name also applied to most of Lucania as well . The Greeks gradually came to apply the name "Italia" to a larger region , but the Peninsula and its borders expanded over time .
According to Strabo's Geographica , before the expansion of the Roman Republic , the name was used by Greeks to indicate the land between the strait of Messina and the line connecting the gulf of Salerno and gulf of Taranto , corresponding roughly to the current region of Calabria . Later the term was extended by Romans to include the Italian Peninsula up to the Rubicon , a river located between Northern and Central Italy . In 49 BC , with the Lex Roscia , Julius Caesar gave Roman citizenship to the people of the Cisalpine Gaul ,[34] while in 42 BCE the hitherto existing province was abolished , thus extending Italy to the north up to the southern foot of the Alps .
It was during the reign of Emperor Augustus that the term was expanded to cover the entire peninsula until the Alps .The islands of Sardinia , Corsica , Sicily and Malta were added to Italy by Diocletian in 292 AD .
History
Main article : History of Italy
Prehistory and antiquity
Main articles : Prehistoric Italy , Etruscan civilisation , Magna Graecia , and Nuragic civilisation
Etruscan fresco in the Monterozzi necropolis , 5th century BC .
Excavations throughout Italy revealed a Neanderthal presence dating back to the Palaeolithic period , some 200 ,000 years ago ,[38] modern Humans appeared about 40 ,000 years ago . Archaeological sites from this period include Addaura cave , Altamura , Ceprano , Monte Poggiolo and Gravina in Puglia .[39]
The Ancient peoples of pre-Roman Italy – such as the Umbrians , the Latins (from which the Romans emerged) , Volsci , Oscans , Samnites , Sabines , the Celts , the Ligures , and many others – were Indo-European peoples . The main historic peoples of possible non-Indo-European heritage include the Etruscans , the Elymians and the Sicani in Sicily , and the prehistoric Sardinians , who gave birth to the Nuragic civilization . Other ancient populations being of undetermined language families and of possible non-Indo-European origin include the Rhaetian people and Cammuni , known for their rock carvings .
Between the 17th and the 11th centuries BC Mycenaean Greeks established contacts with Italy and in the 8th and 7th centuries BC a number of Greek colonies were established all along the coast of Sicily and the southern part of the Italian Peninsula , that became known as Magna Graecia . Also , the Phoenicians established colonies on the coasts of Sicily and in Sardinia .
Ancient Rome
Main article : Ancient Rome
Further information : Roman Kingdom , Roman Republic , and Roman Empire
The Colosseum in Rome , built  70 – 80 AD , is considered one of the greatest works of architecture and engineering of ancient history .
The Roman Empire at its greatest extent , 117 AD .
Rome , a settlement around a ford on the river Tiber conventionally founded in 753 BC , was ruled for a period of 244 years by a monarchical system , initially with sovereigns of Latin and Sabine origin , later by Etruscan kings . The tradition handed down seven kings : Romulus , Numa Pompilius , Tullus Hostilius , Ancus Marcius , Tarquinius Priscus , Servius Tullius and Tarquinius Superbus . In 509 BC , the Romans expelled the last king from their city and established an oligarchic republic .
In the wake of Julius Caesar's rise and death in the first century B .C . , Rome grew over the course of centuries into a massive empire stretching from Britain to the borders of Persia , and engulfing the whole Mediterranean basin , in which Greek and Roman and many other cultures merged into a unique civilisation . The Italian Peninsula was named Italia and was not a province , but the territory of the city of Rome , thus having a special status .[44] The long and triumphant reign of the first emperor , Augustus , began a golden age of peace and prosperity .
The Roman Empire was among the most powerful economic , cultural , political and military forces in the world of its time . It was one of the largest empires in world history . At its height under Trajan , it covered 5 million square kilometres .[45][46] The Roman legacy has deeply influenced the Western civilisation , shaping most of the modern world ; among the many legacies of Roman dominance are the widespread use of the Romance languages derived from Latin , the numerical system , the modern Western alphabet and calendar , and the emergence of Christianity as a major world religion .[47]
In a slow decline since the third century AD , the Empire split in two in 395 AD . The Western Empire , under the pressure of the barbarian invasions , eventually dissolved in 476 AD , when its last Emperor was deposed by the Germanic chief Odoacer , while the Eastern half of the Empire survived for another thousand years .
facist  regime
Main articles : Italian Fascism and Military history of Italy during World War II
Benito Mussolini , duce of Fascist Italy
The socialist agitations that followed the devastation of the Great War , inspired by the Russian Revolution , led to counter-revolution and repression throughout Italy . The liberal establishment , fearing a Soviet-style revolution , started to endorse the small National Fascist Party , led by Benito Mussolini . In October 1922 the Blackshirts of the National Fascist Party attempted a coup (the "March on Rome") which failed but at the last minute , King Victor Emmanuel III refused to proclaim a state of siege and appointed Mussolini prime minister . Over the next few years , Mussolini banned all political parties and curtailed personal liberties , thus forming a dictatorship . These actions attracted international attention and eventually inspired similar dictatorships such as Nazi Germany and Francoist Spain .
In 1935 , Mussolini invaded Ethiopia , resulting in an international alienation and leading to Italy's withdrawal from the League of Nations ; Italy allied with Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan and strongly supported Francisco Franco in the Spanish civil war . In 1939 , Italy annexed Albania , a de facto protectorate for decades . Italy entered World War II on 10 June 1940 . After initially advancing in British Somaliland ,Egypt and eastern fronts , the Italians were defeated in East Africa , the Balkans , Soviet Union and North Africa .
Maximum extent of the Italian Empire (1940–43)
The Armistice of Villa Giusti , which ended fighting between Italy and Austria-Hungary at the end of World War I , resulted in Italian annexation of neighboring parts of Yugoslavia . During the interwar period , the fascist Italian government undertook a campaign of Italianisation in the areas it annexed , which suppressed Slavic language , schools , political parties , and cultural institutions . During World War II , Italian war crimes included extrajudicial killings and ethnic cleansing[75] by deportation of about 25 ,000 people , mainly Jews , Croats , and Slovenians , to the Italian concentration camps , such as Rab , Gonars , Monigo , Renicci di Anghiari and elsewhere . In Italy and Yugoslavia , unlike in Germany , few war crimes were prosecuted .[76][77][78][79] Yugoslav Partisans perpetrated their own crimes during and after the war , including the foibe killings . Meanwhile , about 250 ,000 Italians and anti-communist Slavs fled to Italy in the Istrian exodus .
An Allied invasion of Sicily began in July 1943 , leading to the collapse of the Fascist regime and the fall of Mussolini on 25 July . On 8 September , Italy surrendered . The Germans helped by the Italian fascists shortly succeeded in taking control of northern and central Italy . The country remained a battlefield for the rest of the war , as the Allies were slowly moving up from the south .
In the north , the Germans set up the Italian Social Republic (RSI) , a Nazi puppet state with Mussolini installed as leader . The post-armistice period saw the rise of a large anti-fascist resistance movement , the Resistenza . In late April 1945 , with total defeat looming , Mussolini attempted to escape north ,[80] but was captured and summarly executed near Lake Como by Italian partisans . His body was then taken to Milan , where it was hung upside down at a service station for public viewing and to provide confirmation of his demise .[81] Hostilities ended on 29 April 1945 , when the German forces in Italy surrendered . Nearly half a million Italians (including civilians) died in the conflict ,[82] and the Italian economy had been all but destroyed ; per capita income in 1944 was at its lowest point since the beginning of the 20th century .[83]
Republican Italy
Main article : History of the Italian Republic
Alcide De Gasperi , first republican Prime Minister of Italy and one of the Founding Fathers of the European Union
Italy became a republic after a referendum[84] held on 2 June 1946 , a day celebrated since as Republic Day . This was also the first time that Italian women were entitled to vote .[85] Victor Emmanuel III's son , Umberto II , was forced to abdicate and exiled . The Republican Constitution was approved on 1 January 1948 . Under the Treaty of Peace with Italy of 1947 , most of Julian March was lost to Yugoslavia and , later , the Free Territory of Trieste was divided between the two states . Italy also lost all of its colonial possessions , formally ending the Italian Empire .
Fears in the Italian electorate of a possible Communist takeover proved crucial for the first universal suffrage electoral outcome on 18 April 1948 , when the Christian Democrats , under the leadership of Alcide De Gasperi , obtained a landslide victory . Consequently , in 1949 Italy became a member of NATO . The Marshall Plan helped to revive the Italian economy which , until the late 1960s , enjoyed a period of sustained economic growth commonly called the "Economic Miracle" . In 1957 , Italy was a founding member of the European Economic Community (EEC) , which became the European Union (EU) in 1993 .
The signing ceremony of the Treaty of Rome at the Palazzo dei Conservatori on the Capitoline Hill . Italy is a founding member of all EU institutions .
From the late 1960s until the early 1980s , the country experienced the Years of Lead , a period characterised by economic crisis (especially after the 1973 oil crisis) , widespread social conflicts and terrorist massacres carried out by opposing extremist groups , with the alleged involvement of US and Soviet intelligence .The Years of Lead culminated in the assassination of the Christian Democrat leader Aldo Moro in 1978 and the Bologna railway station massacre in 1980 , where 85 people died .
In the 1980s , for the first time since 1945 , two governments were led by non-Christian-Democrat premiers : one republican (Giovanni Spadolini) and one socialist (Bettino Craxi) ; the Christian Democrats remained , however , the main government party . During Craxi's government , the economy recovered and Italy became the world's fifth largest industrial nation , after it gained the entry into the G7 Group in '70s . However , as a result of his spending policies , the Italian national debt skyrocketed during the Craxi era , soon passing 100% of the GDP .
In the early 1990s , Italy faced significant challenges , as voters – disenchanted with political paralysis , massive public debt and the extensive corruption system (known as Tangentopoli) uncovered by the 'Clean Hands' investigation – demanded radical reforms . The scandals involved all major parties , but especially those in the government coalition : the Christian Democrats , who ruled for almost 50 years , underwent a severe crisis and eventually disbanded , splitting up into several factions .[89] The Communists reorganized as a social-democratic force . During the 1990s and the 2000s (decade) , centre-right (dominated by media magnate Silvio Berlusconi) and centre-left coalitions (led by university professor Romano Prodi) alternately governed the country .
In the late 2000s , Italy was severely hit by the Great Recession . From 2008 to 2013 , the country suffered 42 months of GDP recession . The economic crisis was one of the main problems that forced Berlusconi to resign in 2011 . The government of the conservative Prime Minister was replaced by the technocratic cabinet of Mario Monti . Following the 2013 general election , the Vice-Secretary of the Democratic Party Enrico Letta formed a new government at the head of a right-left Grand coalition . In 2014 , challenged by the new Secretary of the PD Matteo Renzi , Letta resigned and was replaced by Renzi . The new government started important constitutional reforms such as the abolition of the Senate and a new electoral law . On 4 December the constitutional reform was rejected in a referendum and Renzi resigned after few days on 12 December ; the Foreign Affairs Minister Paolo Gentiloni was appointed new Prime Minister .
Italy was affected by the European migrant crisis in 2015 as it became the entry point and leading destination for most asylum seekers entering the EU . Since 2013 , the country took in over 700 ,000 migrants and refugees , mainly from sub-Saharan Africa , which caused great strain on the public purse and a surge in the support for far-right , euroskeptic or eurocritical political parties .
After a strong showing of the Five Star Movement and the League in the 2018 general election , university professor Giuseppe Conte became the Prime Minister .
Geography
Main article : Geography of Italy
Topographic map of Italy
Italy is located in Southern Europe , between latitudes 35° and 47° N , and longitudes 6° and 19° E . To the north , Italy borders France , Switzerland , Austria and Slovenia , and is roughly delimited by the Alpine watershed , enclosing the Po Valley and the Venetian Plain . To the south , it consists of the entirety of the Italian Peninsula and the two Mediterranean islands of Sicily and Sardinia , in addition to many smaller islands . The sovereign states of San Marino and the Vatican City are enclaves within Italy , while Campione d'Italia is an Italian exclave in Switzerland .
The country's total area is 301 ,230 square kilometres (116 ,306 sq mi) , of which 294 ,020 km2 (113 ,522 sq mi) is land and 7 ,210 km2 (2 ,784 sq mi) is water . Including the islands , Italy has a coastline and border of 7 ,600 kilometres (4 ,722 miles) on the Adriatic , Ionian , Tyrrhenian seas (740 km ) , and borders shared with France (488 km (303 mi)) , Austria (430 km (267 mi)) , Slovenia (232 km (144 mi)) and Switzerland (740 km (460 mi)) . San Marino (39 km (24 mi)) and Vatican City (3 .2 km) , both enclaves , account for the remainder .
 Summary 
Kitfo (Amharic : ክትፎ , IPA : [kɨtfo]) , sometimes spelled ketfo , is a traditional dish found in Ethiopian cuisine .
 Overview 
Kitfo consists of minced raw beef , marinated in mitmita (a chili powder-based spice blend) and niter kibbeh (a clarified butter infused with herbs and spices) .
The word comes from the Ethio-Semitic root k-t-f , meaning "to chop finely ; mince ."
Kitfo cooked lightly rare is known as kitfo leb leb .
Kitfo is often served alongside—sometimes mixed with—a mild cheese called ayibe or cooked greens known as gomen .
In many parts of Ethiopia , kitfo is served with injera , a flatbread made from teff , although in traditional Gurage cuisine , one would use kocho , a thick flatbread made from the ensete plant .
An ensete leaf may be used as a garnish .
Though not considered a delicacy , kitfo is generally held in high regard .
Kitfo is served on special occasions such as holidays ; it is commonly used on the "Finding of the True Cross" or "Meskel" holiday celebrated annually on September 27 in Ethiopia .
A laptop is a computer which is easy to carry around .
Its user can fold the laptop along its hinge for carrying .
The laptop was created mainly for this particular reason .
Computer parts were scaled to smaller size so this could happen .
A modern laptop is self-contained , with built-in rechargeable battery and peripheral equipment .
The user can also plug it in , for longer battery life and additional peripherals .
The first laptop was made in 1979 by British Designer Bill Moggridge .
GRiD Systems Corporation helped improve his design .
GRiD made the product with a fold-down display that covered the keyboard .
It was called the GriD Compass .
In 1982 , GRiD Systems began to make many GriD Compass laptops .
They were mostly sold to NASA and the Military of the United States .
GRiD's computer was one fifth the weight of any other computer used at that time .
 Summary 
Lewis Carl Davidson Hamilton MBE (born 7 January 1985 in Stevenage , Hertfordshire , England) is a British Formula One racing driver , currently racing for the Mercedes AMG Petronas team .
A four-time World Champion , he is often regarded as one of the greatest F1 drivers in history .
Hamilton won the British Formula Renault , Formula Three Euroseries , and GP2 championships as his racing career advanced .
He became an F1 driver for McLaren-Mercedes in 2007 , making his Formula One debut (first race) 12 years after his first meeting with Ron Dennis .
Hamilton comes from a mixed-race background , with a black father and white mother .
He is often labelled "the first black driver in Formula One" .In his first season in Formula One , Hamilton set many racing records .
He finished second in the 2007 FIA Formula One World Championship , just one point behind Kimi Räikkönen .
He won his first World Championship the next season by one point ahead of Felipe Massa , overtaking Timo Glock on the final lap in Brazil .
He signed for Mercedes at the end of 2012 to race for them in the 2013 season .
Hamilton has gone on to win three more World Championships , all with the Mercedes team , becoming the most successful British driver in Formula One history .
 Personal life 
 Summary 
Lionel Andrés "Leo" Messi Cuccittini (Spanish pronunciation : [ljoˈnel anˈdɾes ˈmesi]) (born 24 June 1987) is an Argentine footballer .
He plays for Barcelona and the Argentina national team as a forward .
He also has Spanish citizenship , meaning he can play for Spain .
Messi is widely considered by many experts and critics as the greatest football players of all time .
Messi has 5 Ballon d'Or awards .
Messi was awarded FIFA World Player of the Year in 2009 .
His playing style and skills are very similar to the Argentine legend Diego Maradona .
There is much competition between him and Portuguese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo because of their similar skill levels .
 Early Life 
Messi was born in Rosario , Argentina to Jorge Messi and Celia Cuccittini .
 Summary 
Liverpool Football Club () is a professional association football club based in Liverpool , Merseyside , England .
They play in the Premier League , the top tier of English football .
The club has won 5 European Cups , 3 UEFA Cups , 3 UEFA Super Cups , 18 League titles , 7 FA Cups , a record 8 EFL Cups , and 15 FA Community Shields .
Liverpool's anthem is "You'll Never Walk Alone" .
 History 
Liverpool won their first Football League championship in 1901 , and their second in 1906 .
They played their first FA Cup final in 1914 , losing 1–0 to Burnley .
The last trophy they won was the EFL Cup in February 2012 , after beating Cardiff City .
They have also won the Champions League five times , the most of any British side .
Their 5th success was in Istanbul in 2005 .
The game was won after Liverpool tied 3–3 with A .C . Milan , after being down 3–0 at half-time .
The Reds then won the penalty shootout , partly due to goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek's saves .
Liverpool F .C .
have won England's top football league 18 times .
The club's last league title win was the 1989/90 season .
Liverpool has had two tragedies in their history .
The first was the Heysel Stadium disaster of 1985 and the second was the Hillsborough disaster in 1989 , which lead to the deaths of 96 Liverpool fans .
Liverpool are widely regarded as one of the best clubs in the world .
 Players 
 Honours 
 Summary 
A match is a tool for making fire under controlled circumstances .
Most often , it is a small piece of wood , or hardened paper .
At one end , the match is coated with a material that will ignite from friction .
The lighting end of a match is known as the match "head" .
Medical specializations .
A specialty , in medicine is a branch of medical practice . After completing medical school , physicians or surgeons usually further their medical education in a specific specialty of medicine by completing a multiple year residency to become a medical specialist .
You may call them simply doctors . But most doctors have extra expertise in one type of medicine or another . In fact , there are several hundred medical specialties and subspecialties . Here are the most common types of doctors you will likely see .
Allergists or Immunologists : They treat immune system disorders such as asthma , eczema , food allergies , insect sting allergies , and some autoimmune diseases .
Anesthesiologists : These doctors give you drugs to numb your pain or to put you under during surgery , childbirth , or other procedures . They monitor your vital signs while you are under anesthesia .
Cardiologists : They are experts on the heart and blood vessels . You might see them for heart failure , a heart attack , high blood pressure , or an irregular heartbeat .
Colon and Rectal Surgeons : You would see these doctors for problems with your small intestine , colon , and bottom . They can treat colon cancer , hemorrhoids , and inflammatory bowel disease . They also can do a colonoscopy and other tests for colon cancer .
Critical Care Medicine Specialists : They care for people who are critically ill or injured . You might see them if your heart or other organs are failing or if you have been in an accident .
Dermatologists : Do you have problems with your skin , hair , nails ? Do you have moles , scars , acne , or skin allergies ? Dermatologists can help .
Endocrinologists : These are experts on hormones and metabolism . They can treat conditions like diabetes , thyroid problems , infertility , and calcium and bone disorders .
Emergency Medicine Specialists : These doctors make life - or - death decisions for sick and injured people , usually in an emergency room . Their job is to save lives and to avoid or lower the chances of disability .
Family Physicians : They care for the whole family , including children , adults , and the elderly . They do routine checkups and screening tests , give you flu and immunization shots , and manage diabetes and other ongoing medical conditions .
Gastroenterologists : They are specialists in digestive organs , including the stomach , bowels , pancreas , liver , and gallbladder . You might see them for abdominal pain , ulcers , diarrhea , jaundice , or cancers in your digestive organs .
Geriatric Medicine Specialists : These doctors care for the elderly . They can treat people in their homes , doctors apos& : offices , nursing homes , assisted - living centers , and hospitals .
Hematologists : These are specialists in diseases of the blood , spleen , and lymph glands , like sickle cell disease , anemia , hemophilia , and leukemia .
Hospice and Palliative Medicine Specialists : They work with people who are nearing death . They are experts in pain management . They work with a team of other doctors to keep up your quality of life .
Infectious Disease Specialists : They diagnose and treat infections in any part of your body , like fevers , Lyme disease , pneumonia , tuberculosis , and HIV and AIDS . Some of them specialize in preventive medicine or travel medicine .
Internists : These primary - care doctors treat both common and complex illnesses , usually only in adults . You will likely visit them or your family doctor first for any condition . Internists often have advanced training in a host of subspecialties , like heart disease , cancer , or adolescent or sleep medicine .
Medical Geneticists : They diagnose and treat hereditary disorders passed down from parents to children . These doctors may also offer genetic counseling and screening tests .
Nephrologists : They treat kidney diseases as well as high blood pressure and fluid and mineral imbalances linked to kidney disease .
Neurologists : These are specialists in the nervous system , which includes the brain , spinal cord , and nerves . They treat strokes , brain and spinal tumors , epilepsy , Parkinson apos& ;s disease , and Alzheimer apos& ;s disease .
Obstetricians and Gynecologists : These doctors focus on women apos& ;s health , including pregnancy and childbirth . They do Pap smears , pelvic exams , and pregnancy checkups . OB/GYNs are trained in both areas . But some of them may focus on women apos& ;s reproductive health ( gynecologists ) , and others specialize in caring for pregnant women ( obstetricians ) .
Oncologists :  These internists are cancer specialists . They do chemotherapy treatments and often work with radiation oncologists and surgeons to care for someone with cancer .
Ophthalmologists : You call them eye doctors . They can prescribe glasses or contact lenses and diagnose and treat diseases like glaucoma . Unlike optometrists , they are medical doctors who can treat every kind of eye condition as well as operate on the eyes .
Otolaryngologists : They treat diseases in the ears , nose , throat , sinuses , head , neck , and respiratory system . They also can do reconstructive and plastic surgery on your head and neck .
Pathologists : These lab doctors identify the causes of diseases by examining body tissues and fluids under microscopes .
Pediatricians : They care for children from birth to young adulthood . Some pediatricians specialize in pre - teens and teens , child abuse , or children apos& ;s developmental issues .
Physiatrists : These specialists in physical medicine and rehabilitation treat neck or back pain and sports or spinal cord injuries as well as other disabilities caused by accidents or diseases .
Plastic Surgeons : You might call them cosmetic surgeons . They rebuild or repair your skin , face , hands , breasts , or body . That can happen after an injury or disease or for cosmetic reasons .
Podiatrists : They care for problems in your ankles and feet . That can include injuries from accidents or sports or from ongoing health conditions like diabetes . Some podiatrists have advanced training in other subspecialties of the foot .
Preventive Medicine Specialists : They focus on keeping you well . They may work in public health or at hospitals . Some focus on treating people with addictions , illnesses from exposure to drugs , chemicals , and poisons , and other areas .
Psychiatrists : These doctors work with people with mental , emotional , or addictive disorders . They can diagnose and treat depression , schizophrenia , substance abuse , anxiety disorders , and sexual and gender identity issues . Some psychiatrists focus on children , adolescents , or the elderly .
Pulmonologists : You would see these specialists for problems like lung cancer , pneumonia , asthma , emphysema , and trouble sleeping caused by breathing issues .
Radiologists : They use X - rays , ultrasound , and other imaging tests to diagnose diseases . They can also specialize in radiation oncology to treat conditions like cancer .
Rheumatologists : They specialize in arthritis and other diseases in your joints  , muscles , bones  , and tendons . You might see them for your osteoporosis ( weak bones ) , back pain , gout , tendinitis from sports or repetitive injuries , and fibromyalgia .
Sleep Medicine Specialists : They find and treat causes behind your poor sleep . They may have sleep labs or give you take - home tests to chart your sleep - wake patterns .
Sports Medicine Specialists : These doctors diagnose , treat , and prevent injuries related to sports and exercise .
General Surgeons : These doctors can operate on all parts of your body . They can take out tumors , appendices , or gallbladders and repair hernias . Many surgeons have subspecialties , like cancer , hand , or vascular surgery .
Urologists : These are surgeons who care for men and women for problems in the urinary tract , like a leaky bladder . They also treat male infertility and do prostate exams .
 Summary 
Mekelle (Tigrinya : መቐለ , mäqälle) , formerly the capital of Enderta awraja in Tigray , is today the capital city of Tigray National Regional state .
 Summary 
Milk is a white liquid made by mammals , for example cows , dogs , and humans .
It is made in the mammary glands (breasts , udders , or teats) of female mammals .
Because newborn babies have no teeth , they must be given milk before they can eat solid food .
Milk has many nutrients to help babies grow and be healthy .
It is also a rich source of calcium which is good for your bones and teeth .
 Storing milk 
If milk is not kept cold in a refrigerator , it will become sour after some time .
When milk is warmed , it turns sour .
Fermentation makes this happen .
Lactic acid bacteria change the milk sugar into lactic acid .
Fermentation is used when making dairy products .
Milk is often pasteurised before humans drink it .
It is made into dairy products like cream , butter , yoghurt , ice cream , or cheese .
Pasteurised cows' milk will turn sour if it is not kept in a refrigerator .
Milk should be stored between 1° and 4° Celsius .
If milk is treated with very high temperatures , it will last longer before spoiling .
This means it does not have to be put in the refrigerator until it is opened .
 Lactose 
Milk contains a chemical called lactose .
Babies make an enzyme called lactase inside their bodies .
Adults make less lactase .
If they do not have enough , they may not be able to digest lactose anymore .
This problem is called lactose intolerance and it affects many adults .
There are many medicines that help adults digest lactose .
Many lactose-intolerant people drink soy milk instead of animal milk , because it does not contain lactose .
Soy milk tastes similar to animal milk , but it is chemically very different and is made from soybeans .
 Goat milk 
Goat's milk is the milk from a goat .
It can be drunk , both by humans or baby goats , or cheese can be made from it .
This cheese is called goat's milk cheese .
 Coconut milk 
Coconut milk is not real milk because it comes from a plant instead of an animal .
However , it looks similar to real milk because it is white .
It also does not have as many nutrients as real milk .
It is made by removing the white "meat" from a coconut , pressing or squeezing the "meat" , then adding water .
It is sometimes used in cooking , for example , in Thai curry .
Miscarriage .
Miscarriage is a term used for a pregnancy that ends on its own , within the first 20 weeks of gestation . Miscarriage is the most common type of pregnancy loss . Studies reveal that anywhere from 10 - 25 % of all clinically recognized pregnancies will end in miscarriage .
Most miscarriages occur during the first 13 weeks of pregnancy . Pregnancy can be such an exciting time , but with the great number of recognized miscarriages that occur , it is beneficial to be informed about miscarriage , in the unfortunate event that you find yourself or someone you know faced with one .
Why do miscarriages occur ?
The reason for miscarriage is varied , and most often the cause cannot be identified . During the first trimester , the most common cause of miscarriage is chromosomal abnormality – meaning that something is not correct with the baby &apos's chromosomes . Most chromosomal abnormalities are the cause of a damaged egg or sperm cell or are due to a problem at the time that the zygote went through the division process .
Other causes of miscarriage include .
Hormonal problems , infections or maternal health problems . Lifestyle such as smoking , drug use , malnutrition , excessive caffeine and exposure to radiation or toxic substances . Implantation of the egg into the uterine lining does not occur properly . Maternal age . Maternal trauma .
Factors that are not proven to cause miscarriage are sex , working outside the home , unless in a harmful environment , or moderate exercise .
What are the chances of having a miscarriage ?
For women in their childbearing years , the chances of having a miscarriage can range from 10 - 25 % , and in most healthy women the average is about a 15 - 20 % chance . An increase in maternal age affects the chances of miscarriage . Women under the age of 35 years old have about a 15 % chance of miscarriage . Women who are 35 - 45 years old have a 20 - 35 % chance of miscarriage . Women over the age of 45 can have up to a 50% chance of miscarriage . A woman who has had a previous miscarriage has a 25 % chance of having another that is only a slightly elevated risk than for someone who has not had a previous miscarriage .
Miscarriage Warning Signs .
If you experience any or all of these symptoms , it is important to contact your health care provider or a medical facility to evaluate if you could be having a miscarriage . Mild to severe back pain which is often worse than normal menstrual cramps . Weight loss . White - pink mucus . True contractions which is very painful happening every 5 - 20 minutes . Brown or bright red bleeding with or without cramps . Tissue with clot like material passing from the vagina . Sudden decrease in signs of pregnancy .
The different types of miscarriage .
Miscarriage is often a process and not a single event . There are many different stages or types of miscarriage . There is also a lot of information to learn about healthy fetal development so that you might get a better idea of what is going on with your pregnancy . Understanding the early fetal development and first - trimester development can help you to know what things your health care provider is looking for when there is a possible miscarriage occurring . Most of the time all types of miscarriage are just called a miscarriage , but you may hear your health care provider refer to other terms or names according to what is experienced .
Miscarriage Types .
Threatened Miscarriage : Some degree of early pregnancy uterine bleeding accompanied by cramping or lower backache . The cervix remains closed . This bleeding is often the result of implantation .
Inevitable Miscarriage : Abdominal or back pain accompanied by bleeding with an open cervix and / or there is rupture of the membranes .
Incomplete Miscarriage : Abdominal or back pain with shedding of part of the conceptus tissue , that is all of the tissue related to pregnancy is not shed from the uterus .
Complete Miscarriage : A completed miscarriage is when the embryo or products of conception have emptied out of the uterus . Bleeding should subside quickly , as should any pain or cramping . A completed miscarriage can be confirmed by an ultrasound or by having a surgical curettage performed .
Missed Miscarriage : Women can experience a miscarriage without knowing it . A missed miscarriage is when embryonic death has occurred but there is not any expulsion of the embryo . It is not known why this occurs . Signs of this would be a loss of pregnancy symptoms and the absence of fetal heart tones found on an ultrasound .
Recurrent Miscarriage : Defined as 3 or more consecutive first trimester miscarriages . This can affect 1 % of couples trying to conceive .
Treatments for miscarriage .
The main goal of treatment during or after a miscarriage is to prevent hemorrhaging and / or infection . The earlier you are in the pregnancy , the more likely that your body will expel all the fetal tissue by itself and will not require further medical procedures . If the body does not expel all the tissue , the most common procedure performed to stop bleeding and prevent infection is a dilation and curettage . Bleeding should be monitored closely once you are at home ; if you notice an increase in bleeding or the onset of chills or fever , it is best to call your physician immediately .
Miscarriage Prevention .
Since the cause of most miscarriages is due to chromosomal abnormalities , there is not much that can be done to prevent them . One vital step is to get as healthy as you can before conceiving to provide a healthy atmosphere for conception to occur such as exercising regularly , eating healthy foods , managing stress , keeping weight within healthy limits , taking folic acid daily , avoid smoking .
Once you find out that you are pregnant , again the goal is to be as healthy as possible , to provide a healthy environment for your baby to grow in . Keep your abdomen safe . Do not smoke or be around smoke . Do not drink alcohol . Check with your doctor before taking any over - the - counter medications . Limit or eliminate caffeine containing foods or drinks . Avoid environmental hazards such as radiation , infectious disease , and x - rays . Avoid contact sports or activities that have risk of injury .
Emotional treatment for a miscarriage .
Unfortunately , miscarriage can affect anyone . Women are often left with unanswered questions regarding their physical recovery , their emotional recovery and trying to conceive again . It is very important that women try to keep the lines of communication open with family , friends and health care providers during this time .
 Summary 
The Nine Saints were a group of missionaries who were important in the initial growth of Christianity in what is now Ethiopia during the late 5th century .
Their names were Abba Aftse , Abba Alef , Abba Aragawi , Abba Garima (Isaac , or Yeshaq) , Abba Guba , Abba Liqanos , Abba Pantelewon , Abba Sehma , and Abba Yem’ata .
Although frequently described as coming from Syria , only two or three actually came from that province ; according to Paul B . Henze , others have been traced to Constantinople , Anatolia , and even Rome .The Ethiopian historian Tadesse Tamrat speculates that they may have been connected with the anti-Monophysite and anti-Miaphysite persecutions that followed the Council of Chalcedon , which adopted Dyophysitism .
Tradition states that upon arrival they were welcomed by the Axumite king Ella Amida .
Their activities spread Christianity beyond "a narrow corridor between Adulis and Aksum along the caravan routes ."
Besides converting the local inhabitants to Christianity , they also founded a number of monastic houses that followed the rule of Saint Pachomius : Abba Aftse founded the monastery at Yeha ; Abba Alef the northernmost establishment at Bi'isa on the south bank of the Mareb River ; the foundation of the important monastery of Debre Damo is attributed to Abba Aragawi ; Abbas Liqanos and Pantelewon are credited with establishing Pentalewon Monastery in Axum ; Abba Garima founded Abba Garima Monastery north of Adwa ; Abba Guba the one at Madara ; Abba Sehma one at Sedenya ; and Abba Yem’ata founded the southernmost one of the group in the Gar'alta , noted for its Abuna Yemata Guh church named after him .
 Abba Garima and the Garima Gospels 
Recent radiocarbon dating supports the tradition of Saint Abba Garima's arrival at the Abba Garima Monastery in 494 .
The Garima Gospels , which Garima is said to have written , is now regarded as "the world's earliest illustrated Christian manuscript" and the oldest surviving Ethiopian manuscript of any kind .
 Summary 
Niter kibbeh , or niter qibe (Ge'ez ንጥር ቅቤ  niṭer ḳibē) , also called tesmi (in Tigrinya) , is a seasoned , clarified butter used in Eritrean and Ethiopian cuisine .
Its preparation is similar to that of ghee , but niter kibbeh is simmered with spices such as koseret , fenugreek , cumin , coriander , turmeric , cardamom , cinnamon , or nutmeg before straining , imparting a distinct , spicy aroma .
The version using  vegetable oil instead of butter is called "yeqimem zeyet" .
 See also 
List of Ethiopian dishes and foods
Rachel Pike : The science behind a climate headline
In 4 minutes , atmospheric chemist Rachel Pike provides a glimpse of the massive scientific effort behind the bold headlines on climate change , with her team -- one of thousands who contributed -- taking a risky flight over the rainforest in pursuit of data on a key molecule .
I 'd like to talk to you today about the scale of the scientific effort that goes into making the headlines you see in the paper .
Headlines that look like this when they have to do with climate change , and headlines that look like this when they have to do with air quality or smog .
They are both two branches of the same field of atmospheric science .
Recently the headlines looked like this when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , or IPCC , put out their report on the state of understanding of the atmospheric system .
And all of those pages were reviewed by another 400-plus scientists and reviewers , from 113 countries .
It 's a big community . It 's such a big community , in fact , that our annual gathering is the largest scientific meeting in the world .
Over 15 ,000 scientists go to San Francisco every year for that .
And every one of those scientists is in a research group , and every research group studies a wide variety of topics .
For us at Cambridge , it 's as varied as the El Niño oscillation , which affects weather and climate , to the assimilation of satellite data , to emissions from crops that produce biofuels , which is what I happen to study .
And in each one of these research areas , of which there are even more , there are PhD students , like me , and we study incredibly narrow topics , things as narrow as a few processes or a few molecules .
And one of the molecules I study is called isoprene , which is here . It 's a small organic molecule . You 've probably never heard of it .
The weight of a paper clip is approximately equal to 900 zeta-illion -- 10 to the 21st -- molecules of isoprene .
But despite its very small weight , enough of it is emitted into the atmosphere every year to equal the weight of all the people on the planet .
It 's a huge amount of stuff . It 's equal to the weight of methane .
Atmospheric explosions , or full combustion , takes about 15 ,000 times longer than what happens in your car .
But still , we look at the pieces .
We run enormous models on supercomputers ; this is what I happen to do .
Our models have hundreds of thousands of grid boxes calculating hundreds of variables each , on minute timescales .
And it takes weeks to perform our integrations .
And we perform dozens of integrations in order to understand what 's happening .
We also fly all over the world looking for this thing .
I recently joined a field campaign in Malaysia . There are others .
We found a global atmospheric watchtower there , in the middle of the rainforest , and hung hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of scientific equipment off this tower , to look for isoprene , and of course , other things while we were there .
This is the tower in the middle of the rainforest , from above .
And this is the tower from below .
And on part of that field campaign we even brought an aircraft with us .
And this plane , the model , BA146 , which was run by FAAM , normally flies 120 to 130 people .
So maybe you took a similar aircraft to get here today .
But we didn 't just fly it . We were flying at 100 meters above the top of the canopy to measure this molecule -- incredibly dangerous stuff .
We have to fly at a special incline in order to make the measurements .
We hire military and test pilots to do the maneuvering .
We have to get special flight clearance .
And as you come around the banks in these valleys , the forces can get up to two Gs .
And the scientists have to be completely harnessed in in order to make measurements while they 're on board .
So , as you can imagine , the inside of this aircraft doesn 't look like any plane you would take on vacation .
It 's a flying laboratory that we took to make measurements in the region of this molecule .
We do all of this to understand the chemistry of one molecule .
And when one student like me has some sort of inclination or understanding about that molecule , they write one scientific paper on the subject .
And out of that field campaign we 'll probably get a few dozen papers on a few dozen processes or molecules .
And as a body of knowledge builds up , it will form one subsection , or one sub-subsection of an assessment like the IPCC , although we have others .
And each one of the 11 chapters of the IPCC has six to ten subsections .
So you can imagine the scale of the effort .
In each one of those assessments that we write , we always tag on a summary , and the summary is written for a non-scientific audience .
And we hand that summary to journalists and policy makers , in order to make headlines like these .
Thank you very much .
Christopher deCharms : A look inside the brain in real time
Neuroscientist and inventor Christopher deCharms demonstrates a new way to use fMRI to show brain activity -- thoughts , emotions , pain -- while it is happening . In other words , you can actually see how you feel .
Hi . I 'm going to ask you to raise your arms and wave back , just the way I am -- kind of a royal wave .
You can mimic what you can see .
Well , coming out of the research labs just now , for our generation , is the possibility to do that .
People envision this as being very difficult .
You had to take a spaceship , shrink it down , inject it into the bloodstream .
It was terribly dangerous .
You could be attacked by white blood cells in the arteries .
But now , we have a real technology to do this .
We 're going to fly into my colleague Peter 's brain .
We 're going to do it non-invasively using MRI .
We don 't have to inject anything . We don 't need radiation .
We will be able to fly into the anatomy of Peter 's brain -- literally , fly into his body -- but more importantly , we can look into his mind .
When Peter moves his arm , that yellow spot you see there is the interface to the functioning of Peter 's mind taking place .
Now you 've seen before that with electrodes you can control robotic arms , that brain imaging and scanners can show you the insides of brains .
What 's new is that that process has typically taken days or months of analysis .
We 've collapsed that through technology to milliseconds , and that allows us to let Peter to look at his brain in real time as he 's inside the scanner .
He can look at these 65 ,000 points of activation per second .
If he can see this pattern in his own brain , he can learn how to control it .
There have been three ways to try to impact the brain : the therapist 's couch , pills and the knife .
This is a fourth alternative that you are soon going to have .
We all know that as we form thoughts , they form deep channels in our minds and in our brains .
Chronic pain is an example . If you burn yourself , you pull your hand away .
But if you 're still in pain in six months ' or six years ' time , it 's because these circuits are producing pain that 's no longer helping you .
If we can look at the activation in the brain that 's producing the pain , we can form 3D models and watch in real time the brain process information , and then we can select the areas that produce the pain .
So put your arms back up and flex your bicep .
Now imagine that you will soon be able to look inside your brain and select brain areas to do that same thing .
What you 're seeing here is , we 've selected the pathways in the brain of a chronic pain patient .
This may shock you , but we 're literally reading this person 's brain in real time .
They 're watching their own brain activation , and they 're controlling the pathway that produces their pain .
They 're learning to flex this system that releases their own endogenous opiates .
As they do it , in the upper left is a display that 's yoked to their brain activation of their own pain being controlled .
When they control their brain , they can control their pain .
This is an investigational technology , but , in clinical trials , we 're seeing a 44 to 64 percent decrease in chronic pain patients .
This is not " The Matrix . " You can only do this to yourself . You take control .
I 've seen inside my brain . You will too , soon .
When you do , what do you want to control ?
You will be able to look at all the aspects that make you yourself , all your experiences .
These are some of the areas we 're working on today that I don 't have time to go into in detail .
But I want to leave with you the big question .
We are the first generation that 's going to be able to enter into , using this technology , the human mind and brain .
Where will we take it ?
Beeban Kidron : The shared wonder of film
Movies have the power to create a shared narrative experience and to shape memories and worldviews . British film director Beeban Kidron invokes iconic film scenes -- from < em > Miracle in Milan < / em > to < em > Boyz n the Hood < / em > -- as she shows how her group FILMCLUB shares great films with kids .
Evidence suggests that humans in all ages and from all cultures create their identity in some kind of narrative form .
From mother to daughter , preacher to congregant , teacher to pupil , storyteller to audience .
Whether in cave paintings or the latest uses of the Internet , human beings have always told their histories and truths through parable and fable .
We are inveterate storytellers .
But where , in our increasingly secular and fragmented world , do we offer communality of experience , unmediated by our own furious consumerism ?
And what narrative , what history , what identity , what moral code are we imparting to our young ?
Cinema is arguably the 20th century 's most influential art form .
Its artists told stories across national boundaries , in as many languages , genres and philosophies as one can imagine .
Indeed , it is hard to find a subject that film has yet to tackle .
During the last decade we 've seen a vast integration of global media , now dominated by a culture of the Hollywood blockbuster .
We are increasingly offered a diet in which sensation , not story , is king .
What was common to us all 40 years ago -- the telling of stories between generations -- is now rarified .
As a filmmaker , it worried me .
As a human being , it puts the fear of God in me .
What future could the young build with so little grasp of where they 've come from and so few narratives of what 's possible ?
The irony is palpable ; technical access has never been greater , cultural access never weaker .
And so in 2006 we set up FILMCLUB , an organization that ran weekly film screenings in schools followed by discussions .
If we could raid the annals of 100 years of film , maybe we could build a narrative that would deliver meaning to the fragmented and restless world of the young .
Given the access to technology , even a school in a tiny rural hamlet could project a DVD onto a white board .
In the first nine months we ran 25 clubs across the U .K . , with kids in age groups between five and 18 watching a film uninterrupted for 90 minutes .
The films were curated and contextualized .
But the choice was theirs , and our audience quickly grew to choose the richest and most varied diet that we could provide .
The outcome , immediate .
It was an education of the most profound and transformative kind .
In groups as large as 150 and as small as three , these young people discovered new places , new thoughts , new perspectives .
By the time the pilot had finished , we had the names of a thousand schools that wished to join .
The film that changed my life is a 1951 film by Vittorio De Sica , " Miracle in Milan . "
It 's a remarkable comment on slums , poverty and aspiration .
I had seen the film on the occasion of my father 's 50th birthday .
Technology then meant we had to hire a viewing cinema , find and pay for the print and the projectionist .
But for my father , the emotional and artistic importance of De Sica 's vision was so great that he chose to celebrate his half-century with his three teenage children and 30 of their friends , " In order , " he said , " to pass the baton of concern and hope on to the next generation . "
In the last shot of " Miracle in Milan , " slum-dwellers float skyward on flying brooms .
Sixty years after the film was made and 30 years after I first saw it , I see young faces tilt up in awe , their incredulity matching mine .
And the speed with which they associate it with " Slumdog Millionaire " or the favelas in Rio speaks to the enduring nature .
In a FILMCLUB season about democracy and government , we screened " Mr . Smith Goes to Washington . "
Made in 1939 , the film is older than most of our members ' grandparents .
Frank Capra 's classic values independence and propriety .
It shows how to do right , how to be heroically awkward .
It is also an expression of faith in the political machine as a force of honor .
Shortly after " Mr . Smith " became a FILMCLUB classic , there was a week of all-night filibustering in the House of Lords .
It provoked tears as well as incisive questions about unarmed peace-keeping forces and the double-dealing of a Western society that picks its moral fights with commodities in mind .
And when " Schindler 's List " demanded that they never forget , one child , full of the pain of consciousness , remarked , " We already forgot , otherwise how did ' Hotel Rwanda ' happen ? "
As they watch more films their lives got palpably richer .
" Pickpocket " started a debate about criminality disenfranchisement .
" To Sir , with Love " ignited its teen audience .
They celebrated a change in attitude towards non-white Britons , but railed against our restless school system that does not value collective identity , unlike that offered by Sidney Poitier 's careful tutelage .
By now , these thoughtful , opinionated , curious young people thought nothing of tackling films of all forms -- black and white , subtitled , documentary , non-narrative , fantasy -- and thought nothing of writing detailed reviews that competed to favor one film over another in passionate and increasingly sophisticated prose .
Six thousand reviews each school week vying for the honor of being review of the week .
From 25 clubs , we became hundreds , then thousands , until we were nearly a quarter of a million kids in 7 ,000 clubs right across the country .
And although the numbers were , and continue to be , extraordinary , what became more extraordinary was how the experience of critical and curious questioning translated into life .
Some of our kids started talking with their parents , others with their teachers , or with their friends .
And those without friends started making them .
The films provided communality across all manner of divide .
And the stories they held provided a shared experience .
" Persepolis " brought a daughter closer to her Iranian mother , and " Jaws " became the way in which one young boy was able to articulate the fear he 'd experienced in flight from violence that killed first his father then his mother , the latter thrown overboard on a boat journey .
Who was right , who wrong ?
What would they do under the same conditions ?
Was the tale told well ?
Was there a hidden message ?
How has the world changed ? How could it be different ?
A tsunami of questions flew out of the mouths of children who the world didn 't think were interested .
And they themselves had not known they cared .
And as they wrote and debated , rather than seeing the films as artifacts , they began to see themselves .
I have an aunt who is a wonderful storyteller .
In a moment she can invoke images of running barefoot on Table Mountain and playing cops and robbers .
Quite recently she told me that in 1948 , two of her sisters and my father traveled on a boat to Israel without my grandparents .
When the sailors mutinied at sea in a demand for humane conditions , it was these teenagers that fed the crew .
I was past 40 when my father died .
He never mentioned that journey .
My mother 's mother left Europe in a hurry without her husband , but with her three-year-old daughter and diamonds sewn into the hem of her skirt .
After two years in hiding , my grandfather appeared in London .
He was never right again .
And his story was hushed as he assimilated .
My story started in England with a clean slate and the silence of immigrant parents .
I had " Anne Frank , " " The Great Escape , " " Shoah , " " Triumph of the Will . "
It was Leni Riefenstahl in her elegant Nazi propaganda who gave context to what the family had to endure .
These films held what was too hurtful to say out loud , and they became more useful to me than the whispers of survivors and the occasional glimpse of a tattoo on a maiden aunt 's wrist .
Purists may feel that fiction dissipates the quest of real human understanding , that film is too crude to tell a complex and detailed history , or that filmmakers always serve drama over truth .
Consider " Citizen Kane " as valuable as Jane Austen .
Agree that " Boyz n the Hood , " like Tennyson , offers an emotional landscape and a heightened understanding that work together .
Each a piece of memorable art , each a brick in the wall of who we are .
And it 's okay if we remember Tom Hanks better than astronaut Jim Lovell or have Ben Kingsley 's face superimposed onto that of Gandhi 's .
And though not real , Eve Harrington , Howard Beale , Mildred Pierce are an opportunity to discover what it is to be human , and no less helpful to understanding our life and times as Shakespeare is in illuminating the world of Elizabethan England .
We guessed that film , whose stories are a meeting place of drama , music , literature and human experience , would engage and inspire the young people participating in FILMCLUB .
What we could not have foreseen was the measurable improvements in behavior , confidence and academic achievement .
Once-reluctant students now race to school , talk to their teachers , fight , not on the playground , but to choose next week 's film -- young people who have found self-definition , ambition and an appetite for education and social engagement from the stories they have witnessed .
Our members defy the binary description of how we so often describe our young .
We appeared surprised at the behaviors of those who define themselves by the size of the tick on their shoes , yet acquisition has been the narrative we have offered .
If we want different values we have to tell a different story , a story that understands that an individual narrative is an essential component of a person 's identity , that a collective narrative is an essential component of a cultural identity , and without it it is impossible to imagine yourself as part of a group .
Because when these people get home after a screening of " Rear Window " and raise their gaze to the building next door , they have the tools to wonder who , apart from them , is out there and what is their story .
Thank you .
It 's a great time to be a molecular biologist .
Reading and writing DNA code is getting easier and cheaper .
By the end of this year , we 'll be able to sequence the three million bits of information in your genome in less than a day and for less than 1 ,000 euros .
Biotech is probably the most powerful and the fastest-growing technology sector .
It has the power , potentially , to replace our fossil fuels , to revolutionize medicine , and to touch every aspect of our daily lives .
So who gets to do it ?
I think we 'd all be pretty comfortable with this guy doing it .
But what about that guy ?
In 2009 , I first heard about DIYbio .
It 's a movement that -- it advocates making biotechnology accessible to everyone , not just scientists and people in government labs .
The idea is that if you open up the science and you allow diverse groups to participate , it could really stimulate innovation .
Putting technology in the hands of the end user is usually a good idea because they 've got the best idea of what their needs are .
And here 's this really sophisticated technology coming down the road , all these associated social , moral , ethical questions , and we scientists are just lousy at explaining to the public just exactly what it is we 're doing in those labs .
So wouldn 't it be nice if there was a place in your local neighborhood where you could go and learn about this stuff , do it hands-on ?
I thought so .
So , three years ago , I got together with some friends of mine who had similar aspirations and we founded Genspace .
It 's a nonprofit , a community biotech lab in Brooklyn , New York , and the idea was people could come , they could take classes and putter around in the lab in a very open , friendly atmosphere .
None of my previous experience prepared me for what came next . Can you guess ?
The press started calling us .
And the more we talked about how great it was to increase science literacy , the more they wanted to talk about us creating the next Frankenstein , and as a result , for the next six months , when you Googled my name , instead of getting my scientific papers , you got this .
[ " Am I a biohazard ? " ] It was pretty depressing .
The only thing that got us through that period was that we knew that all over the world , there were other people that were trying to do the same thing that we were .
They were opening biohacker spaces , and some of them were facing much greater challenges than we did , more regulations , less resources .
But now , three years later , here 's where we stand .
It 's a vibrant , global community of hackerspaces , and this is just the beginning .
There 's one probably going to open up in Moscow , one in South Korea , and the cool thing is they each have their own individual flavor that grew out of the community they came out of .
Let me take you on a little tour .
Biohackers work alone .
We work in groups , in big cities — — and in small villages .
We genetically engineer bacteria .
We hack hardware , software , wetware , and , of course , the code of life .
We like to build things .
Then we like to take things apart .
We make things grow .
We make things glow .
And we make cells dance .
The spirit of these labs , it 's open , it 's positive , but , you know , sometimes when people think of us , the first thing that comes to mind is bio-safety , bio-security , all the dark side stuff .
I 'm not going to minimize those concerns .
Any powerful technology is inherently dual use , and , you know , you get something like synthetic biology , nanobiotechnology , it really compels you , you have to look at both the amateur groups but also the professional groups , because they have better infrastructure , they have better facilities , and they have access to pathogens .
So the United Nations did just that , and they recently issued a report on this whole area , and what they concluded was the power of this technology for positive was much greater than the risk for negative , and they even looked specifically at the DIYbio community , and they noted , not surprisingly , that the press had a tendency to consistently overestimate our capabilities and underestimate our ethics .
As a matter of fact , DIY people from all over the world , America , Europe , got together last year , and we hammered out a common code of ethics .
That 's a lot more than conventional science has done .
Now , we follow state and local regulations .
We dispose of our waste properly , we follow safety procedures , we don 't work with pathogens .
You know , if you 're working with a pathogen , you 're not part of the biohacker community , you 're part of the bioterrorist community , I 'm sorry .
And sometimes people ask me , " Well , what about an accident ? "
Well , working with the safe organisms that we normally work with , the chance of an accident happening with somebody accidentally creating , like , some sort of superbug , that 's literally about as probable as a snowstorm in the middle of the Sahara Desert .
Now , it could happen , but I 'm not going to plan my life around it .
I 've actually chosen to take a different kind of risk .
I signed up for something called the Personal Genome Project .
It 's a study at Harvard where , at the end of the study , they 're going to take my entire genomic sequence , all of my medical information , and my identity , and they 're going to post it online for everyone to see .
There were a lot of risks involved that they talked about during the informed consent portion .
The one I liked the best is , someone could download my sequence , go back to the lab , synthesize some fake Ellen DNA , and plant it at a crime scene .
But like DIYbio , the positive outcomes and the potential for good for a study like that far outweighs the risk .
Now , you might be asking yourself , " Well , you know , what would I do in a biolab ? "
Well , it wasn 't that long ago we were asking , " Well , what would anyone do with a personal computer ? "
So this stuff is just beginning .
We 're only seeing just the tip of the DNA iceberg .
Let me show you what you could do right now .
A biohacker in Germany , a journalist , wanted to know whose dog was leaving little presents on his street ?
Yep , you guessed it . He threw tennis balls to all the neighborhood dogs , analyzed the saliva , identified the dog , and confronted the dog owner .
I discovered an invasive species in my own backyard .
Looked like a ladybug , right ?
It actually is a Japanese beetle .
And the same kind of technology -- it 's called DNA barcoding , it 's really cool -- You can use it to check if your caviar is really beluga , if that sushi is really tuna , or if that goat cheese that you paid so much for is really goat 's .
In a biohacker space , you can analyze your genome for mutations .
You can analyze your breakfast cereal for GMO 's , and you can explore your ancestry .
You can send weather balloons up into the stratosphere , collect microbes , see what 's up there .
You can make a biocensor out of yeast to detect pollutants in water .
You can make some sort of a biofuel cell .
You can do a lot of things .
You can also do an art science project . Some of these are really spectacular , and they look at social , ecological problems from a completely different perspective .
It 's really cool .
Some people ask me , well , why am I involved ?
I could have a perfectly good career in mainstream science .
The thing is , there 's something in these labs that they have to offer society that you can 't find anywhere else .
There 's something sacred about a space where you can work on a project , and you don 't have to justify to anyone that it 's going to make a lot of money , that it 's going to save mankind , or even that it 's feasible .
It just has to follow safety guidelines .
If you had spaces like this all over the world , it could really change the perception of who 's allowed to do biotech .
It 's spaces like these that spawned personal computing .
Why not personal biotech ?
If everyone in this room got involved , who knows what we could do ?
This is such a new area , and as we say back in Brooklyn , you ain 't seen nothin ' yet .
Geert Chatrou : A whistleblower you haven 't heard
In this engaging talk , world champion whistler Geert Chatrou performs the whimsical " Eleonora " by A . Honhoff , and his own " Fête de la Belle . " In a fascinating interlude , he talks about what brought him to the craft . < em > < / em >
That was whistling .
I 'm trying to do this in English .
Well actually , I 've [ been ] whistling since the age of four , about four .
My dad was always whistling around the house , and I just thought that 's part of communication in my family .
So I whistled along with him .
And actually , till I was 34 , I always annoyed and irritated people with whistling , because , to be honest , my whistling is a kind of deviant behavior .
I whistled alone . I whistled in the classroom .
I whistled on [ my ] bike . I whistled everywhere .
And I also whistled at a Christmas Eve party with my family-in-law .
And they had some , in my opinion , terrible Christmas music .
And when I hear music that I don 't like , I try to make it better .
So " Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer " -- you know it ?
But it can also sound like this .
But during a Christmas party -- at dinner actually -- it 's very annoying .
So my sister-in-law asked me a few times , " Please stop whistling . "
And I just couldn 't .
And at one point -- and I had some wine , I have to admit that -- at one point I said , " If there was a contest , I would join . "
And two weeks later I received a text message : " You 're going to America . "
So , okay , I 'm going to America .
I would love to , but why ?
So I immediately called her up , of course .
She Googled , and she found this World Whistling Championship in America , of course .
She didn 't expect me to go there .
And I would have lost my face .
I don 't know if that 's correct English .
But the Dutch people here will understand what I mean .
I lost my face .
And she thought , " He will never go there . "
But actually I did .
So I went to Louisburg , North Carolina , southeast United States , and I entered the world of whistling .
And I also entered the world championship , and I won there in 2004 .
That was great fun , of course .
And to defend my title -- like judokas do and sportsmen -- I thought , well let 's go back in 2005 , and I won again .
Then I couldn 't participate for a few years .
And in 2008 I entered again in Japan , Tokyo , and I won again .
So what happened now is I 'm standing here in Rotterdam , in the beautiful city , on a big stage , and I 'm talking about whistling .
And actually I earn my money whistling at the moment .
So I quit my day job as a nurse .
And I try to live my dream -- well , actually , it was never my dream , but it sounds so good .
Okay , I 'm not the only one whistling here .
You say , " Huh , what do you mean ? "
Well actually , you are going to whistle along .
And then always the same thing happens : people are watching each other and think , " Oh , my God .
Why ? Can I go away ? "
No , you can 't .
Actually it 's very simple .
The track that I will whistle is called " Fête de la Belle . "
It 's about 80 minutes long .
No , no , no . It 's four minutes long .
And I want to first rehearse with you your whistling .
So I whistle the tone .
Sorry . I forgot one thing .
You whistle the same tone as me .
I heard a wide variety of tones .
This is very promising .
I 'll ask the technicians to start the music .
And if it 's started , I just point where you whistle along , and we will see what happens .
Oh , hah .
I 'm so sorry , technicians .
I 'm so used to that .
I start it myself .
Okay , here it is .
Okay .
It 's easy , isn 't it ?
Now comes the solo . I propose I do that myself .
Max Westerman : Geert Chatrou , the World Champion [ of ] Whistling .
Geert Chatrou : Thank you . Thank you .
Roberto D 'Angelo + Francesca Fedeli : In our baby 's illness , a life lesson
Roberto D 'Angelo and Francesca Fedeli thought their baby boy Mario was healthy -- until at 10 days old , they discovered he 'd had a perinatal stroke . With Mario unable to control the left side of his body , they grappled with tough questions : Would he be " normal ? " Could he live a full life ? The poignant story of parents facing their fears -- and how they turned them around .
Francesca Fedeli : Ciao .
So he 's Mario . He 's our son .
He was born two and a half years ago , and I had a pretty tough pregnancy because I had to stay still in a bed for , like , eight months .
But in the end everything seemed to be under control .
So he got the right weight at birth .
He got the right Apgar index .
So we were pretty reassured by this .
But at the end , 10 days later after he was born , we discovered that he had a stroke .
As you might know , a stroke is a brain injury .
A perinatal stroke could be something that can happen during the nine months of pregnancy or just suddenly after the birth , and in his case , as you can see , the right part of his brain has gone .
So the effect that this stroke could have on Mario 's body could be the fact that he couldn 't be able to control the left side of his body .
Just imagine , if you have a computer and a printer and you want to transmit , to input to print out a document , but the printer doesn 't have the right drives , so the same is for Mario .
It 's just like , he would like to move his left side of his body , but he 's not able to transmit the right input to move his left arm and left leg .
So life had to change .
We needed to change our schedule .
We needed to change the impact that this birth had on our life .
As you may imagine , unfortunately , we were not ready .
Nobody taught us how to deal with such kinds of disabilities , and as many questions as possible started to come to our minds .
And that has been really a tough time .
Questions , some basics , like , you know , why did this happen to us ?
And what went wrong ?
Some more tough , like , really , what will be the impact on Mario 's life ?
I mean , at the end , will he be able to work ?
Will he be able to be normal ?
And , you know , as a parent , especially for the first time , why is he not going to be better than us ?
And this , indeed , really is tough to say , but a few months later , we realized that we were really feeling like a failure .
I mean , the only real product of our life , at the end , was a failure .
And you know , it was not a failure for ourselves in itself , but it was a failure that will impact his full life .
Honestly , we went down .
I mean we went really down , but at the end , we started to look at him , and we said , we have to react .
So immediately , as Francesca said , we changed our life .
We started physiotherapy , we started the rehabilitation , and one of the paths that we were following in terms of rehabilitation is the mirror neurons pilot .
Basically , we spent months doing this with Mario .
You have an object , and we showed him how to grab the object .
Now , the theory of mirror neurons simply says that in your brains , exactly now , as you watch me doing this , you are activating exactly the same neurons as if you do the actions .
It looks like this is the leading edge in terms of rehabilitation .
But one day we found that Mario was not looking at our hand .
He was looking at us .
We were his mirror .
And the problem , as you might feel , is that we were down , we were depressed , we were looking at him as a problem , not as a son , not from a positive perspective .
We restarted from our strengths , and at the same time we restarted from his strengths .
We stopped looking at him as a problem , and we started to look at him as an opportunity to improve .
And really , this was the change , and from our side , we said , " What are our strengths that we really can bring to Mario ? "
And we started from our passions .
I mean , at the end , my wife and myself are quite different , but we have many things in common .
We love to travel , we love music , we love to be in places like this , and we started to bring Mario with us just to show to him the best things that we can show to him .
This short video is from last week .
I am not saying -- — I am not saying it 's a miracle . That 's not the message , because we are just at the beginning of the path .
But we want to share what was the key learning , the key learning that Mario drove to us , and it is to consider what you have as a gift and not only what you miss , and to consider what you miss just as an opportunity .
And this is the message that we want to share with you .
This is why we are here .
Mario !
And this is why -- — And this is why we decided to share the best mirror in the world with him .
And we thank you so much , all of you .
Thank you . Thank you . Bye .
Mark Shaw : One very dry demo
Mark Shaw demos Ultra-Ever Dry , a liquid-repellent coating that acts as an astonishingly powerful shield against water and water-based materials . At the nano level , the spray covers a surface with an umbrella of air so that water bounces right off . Watch for an exciting two-minute kicker .
I 'm here to show you how something you can 't see can be so much fun to look at .
You 're about to experience a new , available and exciting technology that 's going to make us rethink how we waterproof our lives .
What I have here is a cinder block that we 've coated half with a nanotechnology spray that can be applied to almost any material .
It 's called Ultra-Ever Dry , and when you apply it to any material , it turns into a superhydrophobic shield .
So this is a cinder block , uncoated , and you can see that it 's porous , it absorbs water .
Not anymore .
Porous , nonporous .
So what 's superhydrophobic ?
Superhydrophobic is how we measure a drop of water on a surface .
The rounder it is , the more hydrophobic it is , and if it 's really round , it 's superhydrophobic .
A freshly waxed car , the water molecules slump to about 90 degrees .
A windshield coating is going to give you about 110 degrees .
But what you 're seeing here is 160 to 175 degrees , and anything over 150 is superhydrophobic .
So as part of the demonstration , what I have is a pair of gloves , and we 've coated one of the gloves with the nanotechnology coating , and let 's see if you can tell which one , and I 'll give you a hint .
Did you guess the one that was dry ?
When you have nanotechnology and nanoscience , what 's occurred is that we 're able to now look at atoms and molecules and actually control them for great benefits .
And we 're talking really small here .
The way you measure nanotechnology is in nanometers , and one nanometer is a billionth of a meter , and to put some scale to that , if you had a nanoparticle that was one nanometer thick , and you put it side by side , and you had 50 ,000 of them , you 'd be the width of a human hair .
So very small , but very useful .
And it 's not just water that this works with .
It 's a lot of water-based materials like concrete , water-based paint , mud , and also some refined oils as well .
You can see the difference .
Moving onto the next demonstration , we 've taken a pane of glass and we 've coated the outside of it , we 've framed it with the nanotechnology coating , and we 're going to pour this green-tinted water inside the middle , and you 're going to see , it 's going to spread out on glass like you 'd normally think it would , except when it hits the coating , it stops , and I can 't even coax it to leave .
It 's that afraid of the water .
So what 's going on here ? What 's happening ?
Well , the surface of the spray coating is actually filled with nanoparticles that form a very rough and craggly surface .
You 'd think it 'd be smooth , but it 's actually not .
And it has billions of interstitial spaces , and those spaces , along with the nanoparticles , reach up and grab the air molecules , and cover the surface with air .
It 's an umbrella of air all across it , and that layer of air is what the water hits , the mud hits , the concrete hits , and it glides right off .
So if I put this inside this water here , you can see a silver reflective coating around it , and that silver reflective coating is the layer of air that 's protecting the water from touching the paddle , and it 's dry .
So what are the applications ?
I mean , many of you right now are probably going through your head .
Everyone that sees this gets excited , and says , " Oh , I could use it for this and this and this . "
The applications in a general sense could be anything that 's anti-wetting .
We 've certainly seen that today .
It could be anything that 's anti-icing , because if you don 't have water , you don 't have ice .
It could be anti-corrosion .
No water , no corrosion .
It could be anti-bacterial .
Without water , the bacteria won 't survive .
And it could be things that need to be self-cleaning as well .
So imagine how something like this could help revolutionize your field of work .
And I 'm going to leave you with one last demonstration , but before I do that , I would like to say thank you , and think small .
It 's going to happen . Wait for it . Wait for it .
You guys didn 't hear about us cutting out the Design from TED ?
[ Two minutes later . . . ] He ran into all sorts of problems in terms of managing the medical research part .
It 's happening !
Dan Ariely : Our buggy moral code
Behavioral economist Dan Ariely studies the bugs in our moral code : the hidden reasons we think it 's OK to cheat or steal . Clever studies help make his point that we 're predictably irrational -- and can be influenced in ways we can 't grasp .
I want to talk to you today a little bit about predictable irrationality .
And my interest in irrational behavior started many years ago in the hospital .
I was burned very badly .
And if you spend a lot of time in hospital , you 'll see a lot of types of irrationalities .
And the one that particularly bothered me in the burn department was the process by which the nurses took the bandage off me .
Now , you must have all taken a Band-Aid off at some point , and you must have wondered what 's the right approach .
Do you rip it off quickly -- short duration but high intensity -- or do you take your Band-Aid off slowly -- you take a long time , but each second is not as painful -- which one of those is the right approach ?
The nurses in my department thought that the right approach was the ripping one , so they would grab hold and they would rip , and they would grab hold and they would rip .
And because I had 70 percent of my body burned , it would take about an hour .
And as you can imagine , I hated that moment of ripping with incredible intensity .
And I would try to reason with them and say , " Why don 't we try something else ?
Why don 't we take it a little longer -- maybe two hours instead of an hour -- and have less of this intensity ? "
And the nurses told me two things .
They told me that they had the right model of the patient -- that they knew what was the right thing to do to minimize my pain -- and they also told me that the word patient doesn 't mean to make suggestions or to interfere or . . .
This is not just in Hebrew , by the way .
It 's in every language I 've had experience with so far .
And , you know , there 's not much -- there wasn 't much I could do , and they kept on doing what they were doing .
And about three years later , when I left the hospital , I started studying at the university .
And one of the most interesting lessons I learned was that there is an experimental method that if you have a question you can create a replica of this question in some abstract way , and you can try to examine this question , maybe learn something about the world .
So that 's what I did .
I was still interested in this question of how do you take bandages off burn patients .
So originally I didn 't have much money , so I went to a hardware store and I bought a carpenter 's vice .
And I would bring people to the lab and I would put their finger in it , and I would crunch it a little bit .
And I would crunch it for long periods and short periods , and pain that went up and pain that went down , and with breaks and without breaks -- all kinds of versions of pain .
And when I finished hurting people a little bit , I would ask them , so , how painful was this ? Or , how painful was this ?
Or , if you had to choose between the last two , which one would you choose ?
I kept on doing this for a while .
And then , like all good academic projects , I got more funding .
I moved to sounds , electrical shocks -- I even had a pain suit that I could get people to feel much more pain .
But at the end of this process , what I learned was that the nurses were wrong .
Here were wonderful people with good intentions and plenty of experience , and nevertheless they were getting things wrong predictably all the time .
It turns out that because we don 't encode duration in the way that we encode intensity , I would have had less pain if the duration would have been longer and the intensity was lower .
It turns out it would have been better to start with my face , which was much more painful , and move toward my legs , giving me a trend of improvement over time -- that would have been also less painful .
And it also turns out that it would have been good to give me breaks in the middle to kind of recuperate from the pain .
All of these would have been great things to do , and my nurses had no idea .
And from that point on I started thinking , are the nurses the only people in the world who get things wrong in this particular decision , or is it a more general case ?
And it turns out it 's a more general case -- there 's a lot of mistakes we do .
And I want to give you one example of one of these irrationalities , and I want to talk to you about cheating .
And the reason I picked cheating is because it 's interesting , but also it tells us something , I think , about the stock market situation we 're in .
So , my interest in cheating started when Enron came on the scene , exploded all of a sudden , and I started thinking about what is happening here .
Is it the case that there was kind of a few apples who are capable of doing these things , or are we talking a more endemic situation , that many people are actually capable of behaving this way ?
So , like we usually do , I decided to do a simple experiment .
And here 's how it went .
If you were in the experiment , I would pass you a sheet of paper with 20 simple math problems that everybody could solve , but I wouldn 't give you enough time .
When the five minutes were over , I would say , " Pass me the sheets of paper , and I 'll pay you a dollar per question . "
People did this . I would pay people four dollars for their task -- on average people would solve four problems .
Other people I would tempt to cheat .
I would pass their sheet of paper .
When the five minutes were over , I would say , " Please shred the piece of paper .
Put the little pieces in your pocket or in your backpack , and tell me how many questions you got correctly . "
People now solved seven questions on average .
Now , it wasn 't as if there was a few bad apples -- a few people cheated a lot .
Instead , what we saw is a lot of people who cheat a little bit .
Now , in economic theory , cheating is a very simple cost-benefit analysis .
You say , what 's the probability of being caught ?
How much do I stand to gain from cheating ?
And how much punishment would I get if I get caught ?
And you weigh these options out -- you do the simple cost-benefit analysis , and you decide whether it 's worthwhile to commit the crime or not .
So , we try to test this .
For some people , we varied how much money they could get away with -- how much money they could steal .
We paid them 10 cents per correct question , 50 cents , a dollar , five dollars , 10 dollars per correct question .
You would expect that as the amount of money on the table increases , people would cheat more , but in fact it wasn 't the case .
We got a lot of people cheating by stealing by a little bit .
What about the probability of being caught ?
Some people shredded half the sheet of paper , so there was some evidence left .
Some people shredded the whole sheet of paper .
Some people shredded everything , went out of the room , and paid themselves from the bowl of money that had over 100 dollars .
You would expect that as the probability of being caught goes down , people would cheat more , but again , this was not the case .
Again , a lot of people cheated by just by a little bit , and they were insensitive to these economic incentives .
So we said , " If people are not sensitive to the economic rational theory explanations , to these forces , what could be going on ? "
And we thought maybe what is happening is that there are two forces .
At one hand , we all want to look at ourselves in the mirror and feel good about ourselves , so we don 't want to cheat .
On the other hand , we can cheat a little bit , and still feel good about ourselves .
So , maybe what is happening is that there 's a level of cheating we can 't go over , but we can still benefit from cheating at a low degree , as long as it doesn 't change our impressions about ourselves .
We call this like a personal fudge factor .
Now , how would you test a personal fudge factor ?
Initially we said , what can we do to shrink the fudge factor ?
So , we got people to the lab , and we said , " We have two tasks for you today . "
First , we asked half the people to recall either 10 books they read in high school , or to recall The Ten Commandments , and then we tempted them with cheating .
Turns out the people who tried to recall The Ten Commandments -- and in our sample nobody could recall all of The Ten Commandments -- but those people who tried to recall The Ten Commandments , given the opportunity to cheat , did not cheat at all .
It wasn 't that the more religious people -- the people who remembered more of the Commandments -- cheated less , and the less religious people -- the people who couldn 't remember almost any Commandments -- cheated more .
The moment people thought about trying to recall The Ten Commandments , they stopped cheating .
In fact , even when we gave self-declared atheists the task of swearing on the Bible and we give them a chance to cheat , they don 't cheat at all .
Now , Ten Commandments is something that is hard to bring into the education system , so we said , " Why don 't we get people to sign the honor code ? "
So , we got people to sign , " I understand that this short survey falls under the MIT Honor Code . "
Then they shredded it . No cheating whatsoever .
And this is particularly interesting , because MIT doesn 't have an honor code .
So , all this was about decreasing the fudge factor .
What about increasing the fudge factor ?
The first experiment -- I walked around MIT and I distributed six-packs of Cokes in the refrigerators -- these were common refrigerators for the undergrads .
And I came back to measure what we technically call the half-lifetime of Coke -- how long does it last in the refrigerators ?
As you can expect it doesn 't last very long ; people take it .
In contrast , I took a plate with six one-dollar bills , and I left those plates in the same refrigerators .
No bill ever disappeared .
Now , this is not a good social science experiment , so to do it better I did the same experiment as I described to you before .
A third of the people we passed the sheet , they gave it back to us .
A third of the people we passed it to , they shredded it , they came to us and said , " Mr . Experimenter , I solved X problems . Give me X dollars . "
A third of the people , when they finished shredding the piece of paper , they came to us and said , " Mr Experimenter , I solved X problems . Give me X tokens . "
We did not pay them with dollars ; we paid them with something else .
And then they took the something else , they walked 12 feet to the side , and exchanged it for dollars .
Think about the following intuition .
How bad would you feel about taking a pencil from work home , compared to how bad would you feel about taking 10 cents from a petty cash box ?
These things feel very differently .
Would being a step removed from cash for a few seconds by being paid by token make a difference ?
Our subjects doubled their cheating .
I 'll tell you what I think about this and the stock market in a minute .
But this did not solve the big problem I had with Enron yet , because in Enron , there 's also a social element .
People see each other behaving .
In fact , every day when we open the news we see examples of people cheating .
What does this cause us ?
So , we did another experiment .
We got a big group of students to be in the experiment , and we prepaid them .
So everybody got an envelope with all the money for the experiment , and we told them that at the end , we asked them to pay us back the money they didn 't make . OK ?
The same thing happens .
When we give people the opportunity to cheat , they cheat .
They cheat just by a little bit , all the same .
But in this experiment we also hired an acting student .
This acting student stood up after 30 seconds , and said , " I solved everything . What do I do now ? "
And the experimenter said , " If you 've finished everything , go home .
That 's it . The task is finished . "
So , now we had a student -- an acting student -- that was a part of the group .
Nobody knew it was an actor .
And they clearly cheated in a very , very serious way .
What would happen to the other people in the group ?
Will they cheat more , or will they cheat less ?
Here is what happens .
It turns out it depends on what kind of sweatshirt they 're wearing .
Here is the thing .
We ran this at Carnegie Mellon and Pittsburgh .
And at Pittsburgh there are two big universities , Carnegie Mellon and University of Pittsburgh .
All of the subjects sitting in the experiment were Carnegie Mellon students .
When the actor who was getting up was a Carnegie Mellon student -- he was actually a Carnegie Mellon student -- but he was a part of their group , cheating went up .
So , what have we learned from this about cheating ?
We 've learned that a lot of people can cheat .
They cheat just by a little bit .
When we remind people about their morality , they cheat less .
When we get bigger distance from cheating , from the object of money , for example , people cheat more .
And when we see cheating around us , particularly if it 's a part of our in-group , cheating goes up .
Now , if we think about this in terms of the stock market , think about what happens .
What happens in a situation when you create something where you pay people a lot of money to see reality in a slightly distorted way ?
Would they not be able to see it this way ?
Of course they would .
What happens when you do other things , like you remove things from money ?
You call them stock , or stock options , derivatives , mortgage-backed securities .
Could it be that with those more distant things , it 's not a token for one second , it 's something that is many steps removed from money for a much longer time -- could it be that people will cheat even more ?
And what happens to the social environment when people see other people behave around them ?
I think all of those forces worked in a very bad way in the stock market .
More generally , I want to tell you something about behavioral economics .
We have many intuitions in our life , and the point is that many of these intuitions are wrong .
The question is , are we going to test those intuitions ?
We can think about how we 're going to test this intuition in our private life , in our business life , and most particularly when it goes to policy , when we think about things like No Child Left Behind , when you create new stock markets , when you create other policies -- taxation , health care and so on .
And the difficulty of testing our intuition was the big lesson I learned when I went back to the nurses to talk to them .
So I went back to talk to them and tell them what I found out about removing bandages .
And I learned two interesting things .
One was that my favorite nurse , Ettie , told me that I did not take her pain into consideration .
She said , " Of course , you know , it was very painful for you .
But think about me as a nurse , taking , removing the bandages of somebody I liked , and had to do it repeatedly over a long period of time .
Creating so much torture was not something that was good for me , too . "
And she said maybe part of the reason was it was difficult for her .
But it was actually more interesting than that , because she said , " I did not think that your intuition was right .
I felt my intuition was correct . "
So , if you think about all of your intuitions , it 's very hard to believe that your intuition is wrong .
And she said , " Given the fact that I thought my intuition was right . . . " -- she thought her intuition was right -- it was very difficult for her to accept doing a difficult experiment to try and check whether she was wrong .
But in fact , this is the situation we 're all in all the time .
We have very strong intuitions about all kinds of things -- our own ability , how the economy works , how we should pay school teachers .
But unless we start testing those intuitions , we 're not going to do better .
And just think about how better my life would have been if these nurses would have been willing to check their intuition , and how everything would have been better if we just start doing more systematic experimentation of our intuitions .
Jane McGonigal : Massively multi-player … thumb-wrestling ?
What happens when you get an entire audience to stand up and connect with one another ? Chaos , that 's what . At least , that 's what happened when Jane McGonigal tried to teach TED to play her favorite game . Then again , when the game is " massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling , " what else would you expect ?
Today I am going to teach you how to play my favorite game : massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling .
It 's the only game in the world that I know of that allows you , the player , the opportunity to experience 10 positive emotions in 60 seconds or less .
This is true , so if you play this game with me today for just one single minute , you will get to feel joy , relief , love , surprise , pride , curiosity , excitement , awe and wonder , contentment , and creativity , all in the span of one minute .
So this sounds pretty good , right ? Now you 're willing to play .
In order to teach you this game , I 'm going to need some volunteers to come up onstage really quickly , and we 're going to do a little hands-on demo .
While they 're coming up , I should let you know , this game was invented 10 years ago by an artists ' collective in Austria named Monochrom .
So thank you , Monochrom .
Okay , so most people are familiar with traditional , two-person thumb-wrestling .
Sunni , let 's just remind them .
One , two , three , four , I declare a thumb war , and we wrestle , and of course Sunni beats me because she 's the best .
Now the first thing about massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling , we 're the gamer generation .
There are a billion gamers on the planet now , so we need more of a challenge .
So the first thing we need is more thumbs .
So Eric , come on over .
So we could get three thumbs together , and Peter could join us .
We could even have four thumbs together , and the way you win is you 're the first person to pin someone else 's thumb .
This is really important . You can 't , like , wait while they fight it out and then swoop in at the last minute .
That is not how you win .
Ah , who did that ? Eric you did that .
So Eric would have won . He was the first person to pin my thumb .
Okay , so that 's the first rule , and we can see that three or four is kind of the typical number of thumbs in a node , but if you feel ambitious , you don 't have to hold back .
We can really go for it .
So you can see up here .
Now the only other rule you need to remember is , gamer generation , we like a challenge .
I happen to notice you all have some thumbs you 're not using .
So I think we should kind of get some more involved .
And if we had just four people , we would do it just like this , and we would try and wrestle both thumbs at the same time .
Perfect .
Now , if we had more people in the room , instead of just wrestling in a closed node , we might reach out and try and grab some other people .
And in fact , that 's what we 're going to do right now .
We 're going to try and get all , something like , I don 't know , 1 ,500 thumbs in this room connected in a single node .
And we have to connect both levels , so if you 're up there , you 're going to be reaching down and reaching up .
Now — — before we get started -- This is great . You 're excited to play . — before we get started , can I have the slides back up here really quick , because if you get good at this game , I want you to know there are some advanced levels .
So this is the kind of simple level , right ?
But there are advanced configurations .
This is called the Death Star Configuration .
Any Star Wars fans ?
And this one 's called the Möbius Strip .
Any science geeks , you get that one .
This is the hardest level . This is the extreme .
So we 'll stick with the normal one for now , and I 'm going to give you 30 seconds , every thumb into the node , connect the upper and the lower levels , you guys go on down there .
Thirty seconds . Into the network . Make the node .
Stand up ! It 's easier if you stand up .
Everybody , up up up up up !
Stand up , my friends .
All right .
Don 't start wrestling yet .
If you have a free thumb , wave it around , make sure it gets connected .
Okay . We need to do a last-minute thumb check .
If you have a free thumb , wave it around to make sure .
Grab that thumb !
Reach behind you . There you go .
Any other thumbs ?
Okay , on the count of three , you 're going to go .
Try to keep track . Grab , grab , grab it .
Okay ? One , two , three , go !
Did you win ? You got it ? You got it ? Excellent !
Well done . Thank you . Thank you very much .
While you are basking in the glow of having won your first massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling game , let 's do a quick recap on the positive emotions .
So curiosity .
I said " massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling . "
You were like , " What the hell is she talking about ? "
So I provoked a little curiosity .
Creativity : it took creativity to solve the problem of getting all the thumbs into the node .
I 'm reaching around and I 'm reaching up .
So you used creativity . That was great .
How about surprise ? The actual feeling of trying to wrestle two thumbs at once is pretty surprising .
You heard that sound go up in the room .
We had excitement . As you started to wrestle , maybe you 're starting to win or this person 's , like , really into it , so you kind of get the excitement going .
We have relief . You got to stand up .
You 've been sitting for awhile , so the physical relief , getting to shake it out .
We had joy . You were laughing , smiling . Look at your faces . This room is full of joy .
We had some contentment .
I didn 't see anybody sending text messages or checking their email while we were playing , so you were totally content to be playing .
The most important three emotions , awe and wonder , we had everybody connected physically for a minute .
When was the last time you were at TED and you got to connect physically with every single person in the room ?
And it 's truly awesome and wondrous .
And speaking of physical connection , you guys know I love the hormone oxytocin , you release oxytocin , you feel bonded to everyone in the room .
You guys know that the best way to release oxytocin quickly is to hold someone else 's hand for at least six seconds .
You guys were all holding hands for way more than six seconds , so we are all now biochemically primed to love each other . That is great .
How many people are like me . Just admit it .
You lost both your thumbs .
It just didn 't work out for you .
That 's okay , because you learned a new skill today .
You learned , from scratch , a game you never knew before .
Now you know how to play it . You can teach other people .
So congratulations .
How many of you won just won thumb ?
All right . I have very good news for you .
According to the official rules of massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling , this makes you a grandmaster of the game .
Because there aren 't that many people who know how to play , we have to kind of accelerate the program more than a game like chess .
So congratulations , grandmasters .
Win one thumb once , you will become a grandmaster .
Did anybody win both their thumbs ?
Yes . Awesome . Okay .
Get ready to update your Twitter or Facebook status .
You guys , according to the rules , are legendary grandmasters , so congratulations .
I will just leave you with this tip , if you want to play again .
The best way to become a legendary grandmaster , you 've got your two nodes going on .
Pick off the one that looks easiest .
They 're not paying attention . They look kind of weak .
Focus on that one and do something crazy with this arm .
As soon as you win , suddenly stop .
Everybody is thrown off . You go in for the kill .
That 's how you become a legendary grandmaster of massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling .
Thank you for letting me teach you my favorite game .
Wooo !
David Byrne : How architecture helped music evolve
As his career grew , David Byrne went from playing CBGB to Carnegie Hall . He asks : Does the venue make the music ? From outdoor drumming to Wagnerian operas to arena rock , he explores how context has pushed musical innovation .
This is the venue where , as a young man , some of the music that I wrote was first performed .
It was , remarkably , a pretty good sounding room .
With all the uneven walls and all the crap everywhere , it actually sounded pretty good .
This is a song that was recorded there .
This is not Talking Heads , in the picture anyway .
" by Talking Heads ) So the nature of the room meant that words could be understood .
The lyrics of the songs could be pretty much understood .
The sound system was kind of decent .
And there wasn 't a lot of reverberation in the room .
So the rhythms could be pretty intact too , pretty concise .
Other places around the country had similar rooms .
This is Tootsie 's Orchid Lounge in Nashville .
The music was in some ways different , but in structure and form , very much the same .
The clientele behavior was very much the same too .
And so the bands at Tootsie 's or at CBGB 's had to play loud enough -- the volume had to be loud enough to overcome people falling down , shouting out and doing whatever else they were doing .
Since then , I 've played other places that are much nicer .
I 've played the Disney Hall here and Carnegie Hall and places like that .
And it 's been very exciting .
But I also noticed that sometimes the music that I had written , or was writing at the time , didn 't sound all that great in some of those halls .
We managed , but sometimes those halls didn 't seem exactly suited to the music I was making or had made .
So I asked myself : Do I write stuff for specific rooms ?
Do I have a place , a venue , in mind when I write ?
Is that a kind of model for creativity ?
Do we all make things with a venue , a context , in mind ?
Okay , Africa .
Most of the popular music that we know now has a big part of its roots in West Africa .
And the music there , I would say , the instruments , the intricate rhythms , the way it 's played , the setting , the context , it 's all perfect . It all works perfect .
The music works perfectly in that setting .
There 's no big room to create reverberation and confuse the rhythms .
The instruments are loud enough that they can be heard without amplification , etc . , etc .
It 's no accident .
It 's perfect for that particular context .
And it would be a mess in a context like this . This is a gothic cathedral .
It doesn 't change key , the notes are long , there 's almost no rhythm whatsoever , and the room flatters the music .
It actually improves it .
This is the room that Bach wrote some of his music for . This is the organ .
It 's not as big as a gothic cathedral , so he can write things that are a little bit more intricate .
He can , very innovatively , actually change keys without risking huge dissonances .
This is a little bit later .
This is the kind of rooms that Mozart wrote in .
I think we 're in like 1770 , somewhere around there .
They 're smaller , even less reverberant , so he can write really frilly music that 's very intricate -- and it works .
It fits the room perfectly .
This is La Scala .
It 's around the same time , I think it was built around 1776 .
People in the audience in these opera houses , when they were built , they used to yell out to one another .
They used to eat , drink and yell out to people on the stage , just like they do at CBGB 's and places like that .
If they liked an aria , they would holler and suggest that it be done again as an encore , not at the end of the show , but immediately .
And well , that was an opera experience .
This is the opera house that Wagner built for himself .
This is Carnegie Hall .
Obviously , this kind of thing became popular .
The halls got bigger . Carnegie Hall 's fair-sized .
It 's larger than some of the other symphony halls .
And they 're a lot more reverberant than La Scala .
Around the same , according to Alex Ross who writes for the New Yorker , this kind of rule came into effect that audiences had to be quiet -- no more eating , drinking and yelling at the stage , or gossiping with one another during the show .
They had to be very quiet .
So those two things combined meant that a different kind of music worked best in these kind of halls .
It meant that there could be extreme dynamics , which there weren 't in some of these other kinds of music .
Quiet parts could be heard that would have been drowned out by all the gossiping and shouting .
But because of the reverberation in those rooms like Carnegie Hall , the music had to be maybe a little less rhythmic and a little more textural .
This is Mahler .
It looks like Bob Dylan , but it 's Mahler .
That was Bob 's last record , yeah .
Popular music , coming along at the same time .
This is a jazz band .
According to Scott Joplin , the bands were playing on riverboats and clubs .
Again , it 's noisy . They 're playing for dancers .
There 's certain sections of the song -- the songs had different sections that the dancers really liked .
And they 'd say , " Play that part again . "
Well , there 's only so many times you can play the same section of a song over and over again for the dancers .
So the bands started to improvise new melodies .
And a new form of music was born .
These are played mainly in small rooms .
People are dancing , shouting and drinking .
So the music has to be loud enough to be heard above that .
Same thing goes true for -- that 's the beginning of the century -- for the whole of 20th-century popular music , whether it 's rock or Latin music or whatever .
[ Live music ] doesn 't really change that much .
It changes about a third of the way into the 20th century , when this became one of the primary venues for music .
And this was one way that the music got there .
Microphones enabled singers , in particular , and musicians and composers , to completely change the kind of music that they were writing .
So far , a lot of the stuff that was on the radio was live music , but singers , like Frank Sinatra , could use the mic and do things that they could never do without a microphone .
Other singers after him went even further .
This is Chet Baker .
And this kind of thing would have been impossible without a microphone .
It would have been impossible without recorded music as well .
And he 's singing right into your ear .
He 's whispering into your ears .
The effect is just electric .
It 's like the guy is sitting next to you , whispering who knows what into your ear .
So at this point , music diverged .
Now there 's venues like this , a discotheque , and there 's jukeboxes in bars , where you don 't even need to have a band .
There doesn 't need to be any live performing musicians whatsoever , and the sound systems are good .
People began to make music specifically for discos and for those sound systems .
And , as with jazz , the dancers liked certain sections more than they did others .
So the early hip-hop guys would loop certain sections .
The MC would improvise lyrics in the same way that the jazz players would improvise melodies .
And another new form of music was born .
Live performance , when it was incredibly successful , ended up in what is probably , acoustically , the worst sounding venues on the planet : sports stadiums , basketball arenas and hockey arenas .
Musicians who ended up there did the best they could .
They wrote what is now called arena rock , which is medium-speed ballads .
They did the best they could given that this is what they 're writing for .
The tempos are medium . It sounds big .
It 's more a social situation than a musical situation .
And in some ways , the music that they 're writing for this place works perfectly .
So there 's more new venues .
One of the new ones is the automobile .
I grew up with a radio in a car .
But now that 's evolved into something else .
The car is a whole venue .
The music that , I would say , is written for automobile sound systems works perfectly on it .
It might not be what you want to listen to at home , but it works great in the car -- has a huge frequency spectrum , you know , big bass and high-end and the voice kind of stuck in the middle .
Automobile music , you can share with your friends .
There 's one other kind of new venue , the private MP3 player .
Presumably , this is just for Christian music .
And in some ways it 's like Carnegie Hall , or when the audience had to hush up , because you can now hear every single detail .
In other ways , it 's more like the West African music because if the music in an MP3 player gets too quiet , you turn it up , and the next minute , your ears are blasted out by a louder passage .
So that doesn 't really work .
I think pop music , mainly , it 's written today , to some extent , is written for these kind of players , for this kind of personal experience where you can hear extreme detail , but the dynamic doesn 't change that much .
So I asked myself : Okay , is this a model for creation , this adaptation that we do ?
And does it happen anywhere else ?
Well , according to David Attenborough and some other people , birds do it too -- that the birds in the canopy , where the foliage is dense , their calls tend to be high-pitched , short and repetitive .
And the birds on the floor tend to have lower pitched calls , so that they don 't get distorted when they bounce off the forest floor .
And birds like this Savannah sparrow , they tend to have a buzzing type call .
And it turns out that a sound like this is the most energy efficient and practical way to transmit their call across the fields and savannahs .
Other birds , like this tanager , have adapted within the same species .
The tananger on the East Coast of the United States , where the forests are a little denser , has one kind of call , and the tananger on the other side , on the west has a different kind of call .
So birds do it too .
And I thought : Well , if this is a model for creation , if we make music , primarily the form at least , to fit these contexts , and if we make art to fit gallery walls or museum walls , and if we write software to fit existing operating systems , is that how it works ?
Yeah . I think it 's evolutionary .
It 's adaptive .
But the pleasure and the passion and the joy is still there .
This is a reverse view of things from the kind of traditional Romantic view .
The Romantic view is that first comes the passion and then the outpouring of emotion , and then somehow it gets shaped into something .
And I 'm saying , well , the passion 's still there , but the vessel that it 's going to be injected into and poured into , that is instinctively and intuitively created first .
We already know where that passion is going .
But this conflict of views is kind of interesting .
The writer , Thomas Frank , says that this might be a kind of explanation why some voters vote against their best interests , that voters , like a lot of us , assume , that if they hear something that sounds like it 's sincere , that it 's coming from the gut , that it 's passionate , that it 's more authentic .
And they 'll vote for that .
So that , if somebody can fake sincerity , if they can fake passion , they stand a better chance which seems a little dangerous .
I 'm saying the two , the passion , the joy , are not mutually exclusive .
Maybe what the world needs now is for us to realize that we are like the birds .
We adapt .
We sing .
And like the birds , the joy is still there , even though we have changed what we do to fit the context .
Kevin Breel : Confessions of a depressed comic
Kevin Breel didn 't look like a depressed kid : team captain , at every party , funny and confident . But he tells the story of the night he realized that -- to save his own life -- he needed to say four simple words .
For a long time in my life , I felt like I 'd been living two different lives .
There 's the life that everyone sees , and then there 's the life that only I see .
And in the life that everyone sees , who I am is a friend , a son , a brother , a stand-up comedian and a teenager .
That 's the life everyone sees .
If you were to ask my friends and family to describe me , that 's what they would tell you .
And that 's a huge part of me . That is who I am .
And if you were to ask me to describe myself , I 'd probably say some of those same things .
And I wouldn 't be lying , but I wouldn 't totally be telling you the truth , either , because the truth is , that 's just the life everyone else sees .
In the life that only I see , who I am , who I really am , is someone who struggles intensely with depression .
I have for the last six years of my life , and I continue to every day .
Now , for someone who has never experienced depression or doesn 't really know what that means , that might surprise them to hear , because there 's this pretty popular misconception that depression is just being sad when something in your life goes wrong , when you break up with your girlfriend , when you lose a loved one , when you don 't get the job you wanted .
But that 's sadness . That 's a natural thing .
That 's a natural human emotion .
Real depression isn 't being sad when something in your life goes wrong .
Real depression is being sad when everything in your life is going right .
That 's real depression , and that 's what I suffer from .
And to be totally honest , that 's hard for me to stand up here and say .
It 's hard for me to talk about , and it seems to be hard for everyone to talk about , so much so that no one 's talking about it .
And no one 's talking about depression , but we need to be , because right now it 's a massive problem .
It 's a massive problem .
But we don 't see it on social media , right ?
We don 't see it on Facebook . We don 't see it on Twitter .
We don 't see it on the news , because it 's not happy , it 's not fun , it 's not light .
And so because we don 't see it , we don 't see the severity of it .
But the severity of it and the seriousness of it is this : every 30 seconds , every 30 seconds , somewhere , someone in the world takes their own life because of depression , and it might be two blocks away , it might be two countries away , it might be two continents away , but it 's happening , and it 's happening every single day .
And we have a tendency , as a society , to look at that and go , " So what ? "
So what ? We look at that , and we go , " That 's your problem .
That 's their problem . "
We say we 're sad and we say we 're sorry , but we also say , " So what ? "
Well , two years ago it was my problem , because I sat on the edge of my bed where I 'd sat a million times before and I was suicidal .
I was suicidal , and if you were to look at my life on the surface , you wouldn 't see a kid who was suicidal .
You 'd see a kid who was the captain of his basketball team , the drama and theater student of the year , the English student of the year , someone who was consistently on the honor roll and consistently at every party .
So you would say I wasn 't depressed , you would say I wasn 't suicidal , but you would be wrong .
You would be wrong . So I sat there that night beside a bottle of pills with a pen and paper in my hand and I thought about taking my own life and I came this close to doing it .
I came this close to doing it .
And I didn 't , so that makes me one of the lucky ones , one of the people who gets to step out on the ledge and look down but not jump , one of the lucky ones who survives .
Well , I survived , and that just leaves me with my story , and my story is this : In four simple words , I suffer from depression .
I suffer from depression , and for a long time , I think , I was living two totally different lives , where one person was always afraid of the other .
I was afraid that people would see me for who I really was , that I wasn 't the perfect , popular kid in high school everyone thought I was , that beneath my smile , there was struggle , and beneath my light , there was dark , and beneath my big personality just hid even bigger pain .
See , some people might fear girls not liking them back .
Some people might fear sharks . Some people might fear death .
But for me , for a large part of my life , I feared myself .
I feared my truth , I feared my honesty , I feared my vulnerability , and that fear made me feel like I was forced into a corner , like I was forced into a corner and there was only one way out , and so I thought about that way every single day .
I thought about it every single day , and if I 'm being totally honest , standing here I 've thought about it again since , because that 's the sickness , that 's the struggle , that 's depression , and depression isn 't chicken pox .
You don 't beat it once and it 's gone forever .
It 's something you live with . It 's something you live in .
It 's the roommate you can 't kick out . It 's the voice you can 't ignore .
It 's the feelings you can 't seem to escape , the scariest part is that after a while , you become numb to it . It becomes normal for you , and what you really fear the most isn 't the suffering inside of you .
It 's the stigma inside of others , it 's the shame , it 's the embarrassment , it 's the disapproving look on a friend 's face , it 's the whispers in the hallway that you 're weak , it 's the comments that you 're crazy .
That 's what keeps you from getting help .
That 's what makes you hold it in and hide it .
It 's the stigma . So you hold it in and you hide it , and you hold it in and you hide it , and even though it 's keeping you in bed every day and it 's making your life feel empty no matter how much you try and fill it , you hide it , because the stigma in our society around depression is very real .
It 's very real , and if you think that it isn 't , ask yourself this : Would you rather make your next Facebook status say you 're having a tough time getting out of bed because you hurt your back or you 're having a tough time getting out of bed every morning because you 're depressed ?
That 's the stigma , because unfortunately , we live in a world where if you break your arm , everyone runs over to sign your cast , but if you tell people you 're depressed , everyone runs the other way .
That 's the stigma .
We are so , so , so accepting of any body part breaking down other than our brains . And that 's ignorance .
That 's pure ignorance , and that ignorance has created a world that doesn 't understand depression , that doesn 't understand mental health .
And that 's ironic to me , because depression is one of the best documented problems we have in the world , yet it 's one of the least discussed .
We just push it aside and put it in a corner and pretend it 's not there and hope it 'll fix itself .
Well , it won 't . It hasn 't , and it 's not going to , because that 's wishful thinking , and wishful thinking isn 't a game plan , it 's procrastination , and we can 't procrastinate on something this important .
The first step in solving any problem is recognizing there is one .
Well , we haven 't done that , so we can 't really expect to find an answer when we 're still afraid of the question .
And I don 't know what the solution is .
I wish I did , but I don 't -- but I think , I think it has to start here .
It has to start with me , it has to start with you , it has to start with the people who are suffering , the ones who are hidden in the shadows .
We need to speak up and shatter the silence .
We need to be the ones who are brave for what we believe in , because if there 's one thing that I 've come to realize , if there 's one thing that I see as the biggest problem , it 's not in building a world where we eliminate the ignorance of others .
It 's in building a world where we teach the acceptance of ourselves , where we 're okay with who we are , because when we get honest , we see that we all struggle and we all suffer .
Whether it 's with this , whether it 's with something else , we all know what it is to hurt .
We all know what it is to have pain in our heart , and we all know how important it is to heal .
But right now , depression is society 's deep cut that we 're content to put a Band-Aid over and pretend it 's not there .
Well , it is there . It is there , and you know what ? It 's okay .
Depression is okay . If you 're going through it , know that you 're okay .
And know that you 're sick , you 're not weak , and it 's an issue , not an identity , because when you get past the fear and the ridicule and the judgment and the stigma of others , you can see depression for what it really is , and that 's just a part of life , just a part of life , and as much as I hate , as much as I hate some of the places , some of the parts of my life depression has dragged me down to , in a lot of ways I 'm grateful for it .
Because yeah , it 's put me in the valleys , but only to show me there 's peaks , and yeah it 's dragged me through the dark but only to remind me there is light .
My pain , more than anything in 19 years on this planet , has given me perspective , and my hurt , my hurt has forced me to have hope , have hope and to have faith , faith in myself , faith in others , faith that it can get better , that we can change this , that we can speak up and speak out and fight back against ignorance , fight back against intolerance , and more than anything , learn to love ourselves , learn to accept ourselves for who we are , the people we are , not the people the world wants us to be .
Because the world I believe in is one where embracing your light doesn 't mean ignoring your dark .
The world I believe in is one where we 're measured by our ability to overcome adversities , not avoid them .
The world I believe in is one where I can look someone in the eye and say , " I 'm going through hell , " and they can look back at me and go , " Me too , " and that 's okay , and it 's okay because depression is okay . We 're people .
We 're people , and we struggle and we suffer and we bleed and we cry , and if you think that true strength means never showing any weakness , then I 'm here to tell you you 're wrong .
You 're wrong , because it 's the opposite .
We 're people , and we have problems .
We 're not perfect , and that 's okay .
So we need to stop the ignorance , stop the intolerance , stop the stigma , and stop the silence , and we need to take away the taboos , take a look at the truth , and start talking , because the only way we 're going to beat a problem that people are battling alone is by standing strong together , by standing strong together .
And I believe that we can .
I believe that we can . Thank you guys so much .
This is a dream come true . Thank you .
Ronny Edry : Israel and Iran : A love story ?
When war between Israel and Iran seemed imminent , Israeli graphic designer Ronny Edry shared a poster on Facebook of himself and his daughter with a bold message : " Iranians . . . we [ heart ] you . " Other Israelis quickly created their own posters with the same message -- and Iranians responded in kind . The simple act of communication inspired surprising Facebook communities like " Israel loves Iran , " " Iran loves Israel " and even " Palestine loves Israel . "
On March 14 , this year , I posted this poster on Facebook .
This is an image of me and my daughter holding the Israeli flag .
I will try to explain to you about the context of why and when I posted .
It 's like every year it 's the last minute that we can do something about the war with Iran .
It 's like , if we don 't act now , it 's too late forever , for 10 years now .
So at some point it became , you know , to me , I 'm a graphic designer , so I made posters about it and I posted the one I just showed you before .
Most of the time , I make posters , I post them on Facebook , my friends like it , don 't like it , most of the time don 't like it , don 't share it , don 't nothing , and it 's another day .
So I went to sleep , and that was it for me .
And later on in the night , I woke up because I 'm always waking up in the night , and I went by the computer and I see all these red dots , you know , on Facebook , which I 've never seen before .
And I was like , " What 's going on ? "
So I come to the computer and I start looking on , and suddenly I see many people talking to me , most of them I don 't know , and a few of them from Iran , which is -- What ?
Because you have to understand , in Israel we don 't talk with people from Iran .
We don 't know people from Iran .
It 's like , on Facebook , you have friends only from -- it 's like your neighbors are your friends on Facebook .
And now people from Iran are talking to me .
So I start answering this girl , and she 's telling me she saw the poster and she asked her family to come , because they don 't have a computer , she asked her family to come to see the poster , and they 're all sitting in the living room crying .
So I 'm like , whoa .
I ask my wife to come , and I tell her , you have to see that .
People are crying , and she came , she read the text , and she started to cry .
And everybody 's crying now .
So I don 't know what to do , so my first reflex , as a graphic designer , is , you know , to show everybody what I 'd just seen , and people started to see them and to share them , and that 's how it started .
The day after , when really it became a lot of talking , I said to myself , and my wife said to me , I also want a poster , so this is her .
Because it 's working , put me in a poster now .
But more seriously , I was like , okay , these ones work , but it 's not just about me , it 's about people from Israel who want to say something .
So I 'm going to shoot all the people I know , if they want , and I 'm going to put them in a poster and I 'm going to share them .
So I went to my neighbors and friends and students and I just asked them , give me a picture , I will make you a poster .
And that 's how it started . And that 's how , really , it 's unleashed , because suddenly people from Facebook , friends and others , just understand that they can be part of it .
It 's not just one dude making one poster , it 's -- we can be part of it , so they start sending me pictures and ask me , " Make me a poster . Post it .
Tell the Iranians we from Israel love you too . "
It became , you know , at some point it was really , really intense .
I mean , so many pictures , so I asked friends to come , graphic designers most of them , to make posters with me , because I didn 't have the time .
It was a huge amount of pictures .
So for a few days , that 's how my living room was .
And we received Israeli posters , Israeli images , but also lots of comments , lots of messages from Iran .
And we took these messages and we made posters out of it , because I know people : They don 't read , they see images .
If it 's an image , they may read it .
So here are a few of them .
This one is really moving for me because it 's the story of a girl who has been raised in Iran to walk on an Israeli flag to enter her school every morning , and now that she sees the posters that we 're sending , she starts -- she said that she changed her mind , and now she loves that blue , she loves that star , and she loves that flag , talking about the Israeli flag , and she wished that we 'd meet and come to visit one another , and just a few days after I posted the first poster .
The day after , Iranians started to respond with their own posters .
They have graphic designers . What ?
So you can see they are still shy , they don 't want to show their faces , but they want to spread the message .
They want to respond . They want to say the same thing .
So . And now it 's communication .
It 's a two-way story . It 's Israelis and Iranians sending the same message , one to each other .
This never happened before , and this is two people supposed to be enemies , we 're on the verge of a war , and suddenly people on Facebook are starting to say , " I like this guy . I love those guys . "
And it became really big at some point .
And then it became news .
Because when you 're seeing the Middle East , you see only the bad news .
And suddenly , there is something that was happening that was good news . So the guys on the news , they say , " Okay , let 's talk about this . "
I remember one day , Michal , she was talking with the journalist , and she was asking him , " Who 's gonna see the show ? " And he said , " Everybody . "
So she said , " Everybody in Palestine , in where ? Israel ?
Who is everybody ? " " Everybody . "
They said , " Syria ? " " Syria . "
" Lebanon ? " " Lebanon . "
At some point , he just said , " 40 million people are going to see you today .
It 's everybody . " The Chinese .
And we were just at the beginning of the story .
Something crazy also happened .
Every time a country started talking about it , like Germany , America , wherever , a page on Facebook popped up with the same logo with the same stories , so at the beginning we had " Iran-Loves-Israel , " which is an Iranian sitting in Tehran , saying , " Okay , Israel loves Iran ?
I give you Iran-Loves-Israel . "
You have Palestine-Loves-Israel .
You have Lebanon that just -- a few days ago .
And this whole list of pages on Facebook dedicated to the same message , to people sending their love , one to each other .
The moment I really understood that something was happening , a friend of mine told me , " Google the word ' Israel . ' " And those were the first images on those days that popped up from Google when you were typing , " Israel " or " Iran . "
We really changed how people see the Middle East .
Because you 're not in the Middle East .
You 're somewhere over there , and then you want to see the Middle East , so you go on Google and you say , " Israel , " and they give you the bad stuff .
And for a few days you got those images .
Today the Israel-Loves-Iran page is this number , 80 ,831 , and two million people last week went on the page and shared , liked , I don 't know , commented on one of the photos .
So for five months now , that 's what we are doing , me , Michal , a few of my friends , are just making images .
We 're showing a new reality by just making images because that 's how the world perceives us .
They see images of us , and they see bad images .
So we 're working on making good images . End of story .
Look at this one . This is the Iran-Loves-Israel page .
This is not the Israel-Loves-Iran . This is not my page .
This is a guy in Tehran on the day of remembrance of the Israeli fallen soldier putting an image of an Israeli soldier on his page .
This is the enemy .
What ?
It 's like , we are showing respect , one to each other .
And we 're understanding . And you show compassion .
And you become friends .
And at some point , you become friends on Facebook , and you become friends in life .
You can go and travel and meet people .
And I was in Munich a few weeks ago .
I went there to open an exposition about Iran and I met there with people from the page that told me , " Okay , you 're going to be in Europe , I 'm coming . I 'm coming from France , from Holland , from Germany , " of course , and from Israel people came , and we just met there for the first time in real life .
I met with people that are supposed to be my enemies for the first time . And we just shake hands , and have a coffee and a nice discussion , and we talk about food and basketball .
And that was the end of it .
Remember that image from the beginning ?
At some point we met in real life , and we became friends .
And it goes the other way around .
Some girl that we met on Facebook never been in Israel , born and raised in Iran , lives in Germany , afraid of Israelis because of what she knows about us , decides after a few months of talking on the Internet with some Israelis to come to Israel , and she gets on the plane and arrives at Ben Gurion and says , " Okay , not that big a deal . "
So a few weeks ago , the stress is getting higher , so we start this new campaign called " Not ready to die in your war . "
I mean , it 's plus / minus the same message , but we wanted really to add some aggressivity to it .
And again , something amazing happened , something that we didn 't have on the first wave of the campaign .
Now people from Iran , the same ones who were shy at the first campaign and just sent , you know , their foot and half their faces , now they 're sending their faces , and they 're saying , " Okay , no problem , we 're into it . We are with you . "
Just read where those guys are from .
And for every guy from Israel , you 've got someone from Iran .
My name is Ronny Edry , and I 'm 41 , I 'm an Israeli , I 'm a father of two , I 'm a husband , and I 'm a graphic designer . I 'm teaching graphic design .
And I 'm not that naive , because a lot of the time I 've been asked , many times I 've been asked , " Yeah , but , this is really naive , sending flowers over , I mean — " I was in the army . I was in the paratroopers for three years , and I know how it looks from the ground .
I know how it can look really bad .
So to me , this is the courageous thing to do , to try to reach the other side before it 's too late , because when it 's going to be too late , it 's going to be too late .
And sometimes war is inevitable , sometimes , but maybe [ with ] effort , we can avoid it .
Maybe as people , because especially in Israel , we 're in a democracy . We have the freedom of speech , and maybe that little thing can change something .
And really , we can be our own ambassadors .
We can just send a message and hope for the best .
So I want to ask Michal , my wife , to come with me on the stage just to make with you one image , because it 's all about images .
And maybe that image will help us change something .
Just raise that . Exactly .
And I 'm just going to take a picture of it , and I 'm just going to post it on Facebook with kind of " Israelis for peace " or something .
Don 't cry .
Thank you guys .
Charles Moore : Seas of plastic
Capt . Charles Moore of the Algalita Marine Research Foundation first discovered the Great Pacific Garbage Patch -- an endless floating waste of plastic trash . Now he 's drawing attention to the growing , choking problem of plastic debris in our seas .
Let 's talk trash .
You know , we had to be taught to renounce the powerful conservation ethic we developed during the Great Depression and World War II .
After the war , we needed to direct our enormous production capacity toward creation of products for peacetime .
Life Magazine helped in this effort by announcing the introduction of throwaways that would liberate the housewife from the drudgery of doing dishes .
Mental note to the liberators : throwaway plastics take a lot of space and don 't biodegrade .
Only we humans make waste that nature can 't digest .
Plastics are also hard to recycle .
That 's the percentage we recycle .
Now , melting point has a lot to do with this .
Plastic is not purified by the re-melting process like glass and metal .
It begins to melt below the boiling point of water and does not drive off the oily contaminants for which it is a sponge .
Half of each year 's 100 billion pounds of thermal plastic pellets will be made into fast-track trash .
A large , unruly fraction of our trash will flow downriver to the sea .
Here is the accumulation at Biona Creek next to the L .A . airport .
And here is the flotsam near California State University Long Beach and the diesel plant we visited yesterday .
In spite of deposit fees , much of this trash leading out to the sea will be plastic beverage bottles .
We use two million of them in the United States every five minutes , here imaged by TED presenter Chris Jordan , who artfully documents mass consumption and zooms in for more detail .
Here is a remote island repository for bottles off the coast of Baja California .
Isla San Roque is an uninhabited bird rookery off Baja 's sparsely populated central coast .
Notice that the bottles here have caps on them .
Bottles made of polyethylene terephthalate , PET , will sink in seawater and not make it this far from civilization .
Also , the caps are produced in separate factories from a different plastic , polypropylene .
They will float in seawater , but unfortunately do not get recycled under the bottle bills .
Let 's trace the journey of the millions of caps that make it to sea solo .
After a year the ones from Japan are heading straight across the Pacific , while ours get caught in the California current and first head down to the latitude of Cabo San Lucas .
After ten years , a lot of the Japanese caps are in what we call the Eastern Garbage Patch , while ours litter the Philippines .
After 20 years , we see emerging the debris accumulation zone of the North Pacific Gyre .
It so happens that millions of albatross nesting on Kure and Midway atolls in the Northwest Hawaiian Islands National Monument forage here and scavenge whatever they can find for regurgitation to their chicks .
A four-month old Laysan Albatross chick died with this in its stomach .
Hundreds of thousands of the goose-sized chicks are dying with stomachs full of bottle caps and other rubbish , like cigarette lighters . . .
but , mostly bottle caps .
Sadly , their parents mistake bottle caps for food tossing about in the ocean surface .
The retainer rings for the caps also have consequences for aquatic animals .
This is Mae West , still alive at a zookeeper 's home in New Orleans .
I wanted to see what my home town of Long Beach was contributing to the problem , so on Coastal Clean-Up Day in 2005 I went to the Long Beach Peninsula , at the east end of our long beach .
We cleaned up the swaths of beach shown .
I offered five cents each for bottle caps .
I got plenty of takers .
Here are the 1 ,100 bottle caps they collected .
I thought I would spend 20 bucks .
That day I ended up spending nearly 60 .
I separated them by color and put them on display the next Earth Day at Cabrillo Marine Aquarium in San Pedro .
Governor Schwarzenegger and his wife Maria stopped by to discuss the display .
I showed him and Maria a zooplankton trawl from the gyre north of Hawaii with more plastic than plankton .
Here 's what our trawl samples from the plastic soup our ocean has become look like .
Trawling a zooplankton net on the surface for a mile produces samples like this .
And this .
Now , when the debris washes up on the beaches of Hawaii it looks like this .
And this particular beach is Kailua Beach , the beach where our president and his family vacationed before moving to Washington .
Now , how do we analyze samples like this one that contain more plastic than plankton ?
We sort the plastic fragments into different size classes , from five millimeters to one-third of a millimeter .
Small bits of plastic concentrate persistent organic pollutants up to a million times their levels in the surrounding seawater .
We wanted to see if the most common fish in the deep ocean , at the base of the food chain , was ingesting these poison pills .
We did hundreds of necropsies , and over a third had polluted plastic fragments in their stomachs .
The record-holder , only two-and-a-half inches long , had 84 pieces in its tiny stomach .
Now , you can buy certified organic produce .
But no fishmonger on Earth can sell you a certified organic wild-caught fish .
This is the legacy we are leaving to future generations .
The throwaway society cannot be contained -- it has gone global .
We simply cannot store and maintain or recycle all our stuff .
We have to throw it away .
Now , the market can do a lot for us , but it can 't fix the natural system in the ocean we 've broken .
All the king 's horses and all the king 's men . . .
will never gather up all the plastic and put the ocean back together again .
Narrator : The levels are increasing , the amount of packaging is increasing , the " throwaway " concept of living is proliferating , and it 's showing up in the ocean .
Anchor : He offers no hope of cleaning it up .
Straining the ocean for plastic would be beyond the budget of any country and it might kill untold amounts of sea life in the process .
The solution , Moore says , is to stop the plastic at its source : stop it on land before it falls in the ocean .
And in a plastic-wrapped and packaged world , he doesn 't hold out much hope for that , either .
This is Brian Rooney for Nightline , in Long Beach , California .
Charles Moore : Thank you .
Carolyn Steel : How food shapes our cities
Every day , in a city the size of London , 30 million meals are served . But where does all the food come from ? Architect Carolyn Steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .
How do you feed a city ?
It 's one of the great questions of our time .
Yet it 's one that 's rarely asked .
We take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater 's foyer in about an hour 's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .
These are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .
And increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .
As more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .
And given that it takes three times as much grain -- actually ten times as much grain -- to feed a human if it 's passed through an animal first , that 's not a very efficient way of feeding us .
And it 's an escalating problem too .
By 2050 , it 's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .
And it 's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .
So meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .
And that 's going to pose an enormous problem .
Six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .
That 's a big problem . And actually if we carry on as we are , it 's a problem we 're very unlikely to be able to solve .
Nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .
Although at the same time we 're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .
We 're very hungry for fossil fuels too .
It takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the West .
And even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don 't actually value it .
Half the food produced in the USA is currently thrown away .
And to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we 're not even managing to feed the planet properly .
A billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .
None of it makes very much sense .
And when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it 's a grim picture .
As we 're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a Western diet .
And if we look to the future , it 's an unsustainable diet .
So how did we get here ?
And more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?
Well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 ,000 years ago , I would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient Near East , known as the Fertile Crescent .
Because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .
And it was also fertile .
And it was here , about 10 ,000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .
This is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . They need each other .
Because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .
And if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .
They were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at Ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .
Because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn 't eat back to the people .
So , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .
And in fact , that 's true of every ancient city .
But of course not all of them were that small .
Famously , Rome had about a million citizens by the first century A .D .
So how did a city like this feed itself ?
The answer is what I call " ancient food miles . "
Basically , Rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .
This is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .
And the food obviously went off very quickly .
So Rome effectively waged war on places like Carthage and Egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .
And , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the Empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .
In fact -- I love the fact , I just have to mention this : Rome in fact used to import oysters from London , at one stage . I think that 's extraordinary .
So Rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .
But the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the pre-industrial world .
If we look at a map of London in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the Thames , along the bottom of this map .
So the grain markets were to the south of the city .
And the roads leading up from them to Cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .
And if you look at the name of one of those streets , Bread Street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .
And the same of course was true for fish .
Fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . Same thing .
And of course Billingsgate , famously , was London 's fish market , operating on-site here until the mid-1980s .
Which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .
Everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .
This is another thing about food in cities : Once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .
Meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .
So much of London 's meat was coming from the northwest , from Scotland and Wales .
So it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why Smithfield , London 's very famous meat market , was located up there .
Poultry was coming in from East Anglia and so on , to the northeast .
I feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . Anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .
And then when they hit the eastern end of Cheapside , that 's where they were sold , which is why it 's called Poultry .
And , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .
Because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .
And if we look at an image of Smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .
In fact , if you were having Sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .
So this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .
And then 10 years later everything changed .
This is an image of the Great Western in 1840 .
And as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .
So all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .
They 're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .
And they 're coming into the city by rail .
And this changes everything .
To start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .
Cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .
All of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .
And as you can see from these maps of London , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .
And of course that was just the beginning . After the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .
It 's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .
And this is the kind of city that 's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .
In fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week 's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .
And this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .
Here we have food -- that used to be the center , the social core of the city -- at the periphery .
It used to be a social event , buying and selling food .
Now it 's anonymous .
We used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you 're making a cake or something .
We don 't smell food to see if it 's okay to eat .
We just read the back of a label on a packet .
And we don 't value food . We don 't trust it .
So instead of trusting it , we fear it .
And instead of valuing it , we throw it away .
One of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they 've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .
By making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they 've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .
And also they 've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we 've seen , are unsustainable .
So what are we going to do about that ?
It 's not a new question .
500 years ago it 's what Thomas More was asking himself .
This is the frontispiece of his book " Utopia . "
And it was a series of semi-independent city-states , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day 's walk from one another where everyone was basically farming-mad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .
And I think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of Utopia , even though More never framed it that way .
And here is another very famous " Utopian " vision , that of Ebenezer Howard , " The Garden City . "
Same idea : series of semi-independent city-states , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .
the ordering principle of his vision .
It even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that Howard had .
And that is the problem with these Utopian ideas , that they are Utopian .
Utopia was actually a word that Thomas Moore used deliberately .
It was a kind of joke , because it 's got a double derivation from the Greek .
It can either mean a good place , or no place .
Because it 's an ideal . It 's an imaginary thing . We can 't have it .
And I think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .
So I 've come up with an alternative , which is Sitopia , from the ancient Greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .
I believe we already live in Sitopia .
We live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool -- a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .
So if we were to do that , what might Sitopia look like ?
Well I think it looks a bit like this .
I have to use this slide . It 's just the look on the face of the dog .
But anyway , this is -- it 's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .
This is where food should be in our society .
But you can 't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .
By the way , these can be men as well .
It 's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .
We need these people . We 're part of a network .
Because without these kinds of people we can 't have places like this .
Here , I deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .
But networks , markets where food is being grown locally .
It 's common . It 's fresh .
It 's part of the social life of the city .
Because without that , you can 't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zero-sum commodity off in some unseen hell-hole .
Cows with a view .
Steaming piles of humus .
This is basically bringing the whole thing together .
And this is a community project I visited recently in Toronto .
It 's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .
Here is a plant called Kevin , or maybe it 's a plant belonging to a kid called Kevin . I don 't know .
But anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .
So Sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .
It 's basically recognizing that Sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .
The trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .
And if we do that , we 're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .
We 're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .
But of course , that 's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .
We need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why I think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .
It 's a re-conceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .
The best image I know of this is from 650 years ago .
It 's Ambrogio Lorenzetti 's " Allegory of Good Government . "
It 's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .
And I think the message of this is very clear .
If the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .
And I want us to ask now , what would Ambrogio Lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?
What would an allegory of good government look like today ?
Because I think it 's an urgent question .
It 's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .
We know we are what we eat .
We need to realize that the world is also what we eat .
But if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .
Eddi Reader : " Kiteflyer 's Hill "
Singer / songwriter Eddi Reader performs " Kiteflyer 's Hill , " a tender look back at a lost love . With Thomas Dolby on piano .
This is about a place in London called Kiteflyer 's Hill where I used to go and spend hours going " When is he coming back ? When is he coming back ? "
So this is another one dedicated to that guy . . .
who I 've got over .
But this is " Kiteflyer 's Hill . "
It 's a beautiful song written by a guy called Martin Evan , actually , for me .
Boo Hewerdine , Thomas Dolby , thank you very much for inviting me . It 's been a blessing singing for you .
Do you remember when we used to go up to Kiteflyer 's Hill ? Those summer nights , so still with all of the city beneath us and all of our lives ahead before cruel and foolish words were cruelly and foolishly said Some nights I think of you and then I go up on Kiteflyer 's Hill wrapped up against the winter chill And somewhere in the city beneath me you lie asleep in your bed and I wonder if ever just briefly do I creep in your dreams now and then Where are you now ? My wild summer love Where are you now ? Have the years been kind ? And do you think of me sometimes up on Kiteflyer 's Hill ? Oh , I pray you one day will We won 't say a word We won 't need them Sometimes silence is best We 'll just stand in the still of the evening and whisper farewell to loneliness Where are you now ? My wild summer love Where are you now ? Do you think of me sometimes ? And do you ever make that climb ? Where are you now ? My wild summer love Where are you now ? Have the years been kind ? And do you ever make that climb up on Kiteflyer 's Hill ? Kiteflyer 's . . . [ French ] Where are you ? Where are you now ? Where are you now ? Kiteflyer 's . . . Gracias . Thank you very much .
Christopher C . Deam : The Airstream , restyled
In this low-key , image-packed talk from 2002 , designer Christopher C . Deam talks about his makeover of an American classic : the Airstream travel trailer .
a plastic laminate company , which is the largest plastic laminate company in the world -- they asked me to design a trade show booth for exhibition at the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in New York , in 2000 .
So looking at their three main markets for their product which were basically transportation design , interiors and furniture , we came up with the solution of taking an old Airstream trailer and gutting it , and trying to portray laminate , and a trailer , in kind of a fresh , new contemporary look .
When this trailer showed up at my shop in Berkeley , I 'd actually never stepped foot in an Airstream trailer , or any other trailer .
So I can be somebody that can look at this in a totally fresh perspective and see if I can optimize it in its most idealistic fashion .
I decided I had to do some research and really figure out what had gone wrong somewhere along the history of Airstream .
What I discovered in these interiors is that there was a disconnect between the exterior shell and the interior architecture of the pieces .
In that the shell was originally conceived as a lightweight , modern , futuristic , high-tech pod for hurtling down the freeway , and the interiors were completely out of sync with that .
In fact it appeared like they referenced a mountain cabin .
That seemed really like a crisis to me , that they had never been able to develop a vocabulary about escape , and about travel , and modernity in this trailer that was consistent with the shell .
We really needed to do some archeology in the trailer itself to figure out what 's authentic in an Airstream trailer , and what feels like it has true purpose and utility .
We stripped out all the vinyl and zolatone paint that was covering up this just fantastic aluminum shell .
We took off all the visible hardware and trim that was kind of doing the country cabin thing .
I literally drew on the walls of the trailer , mocked it up in cardboard , we 'd come in and cut , decide things were wrong , pull it out , put it back in .
The main goal was to smooth out the interior , and begin to speak about motion , and mobility , and independence .
The biggest difficulty on one of these trailers is that when you 're designing there 's actually no logical place to stop and start materials because of the continuous form of the trailer .
There 's no such things as two walls and a ceiling coming together , where you can change materials and shapes .
So that became a challenge .
Compounding that , the material of choice , laminate , that I was trying to highlight , only bends in two dimensions .
It 's a compound curve interior .
What I had to devise was a way of fooling the eye into believing that all these panels are curved with the shell .
What I came up with was a series of second skins that basically float over the aluminum shell .
And what I was trying to do there was direct your eye in the space , so that you would perceive the geometry in a different way , and that the casework wouldn 't break up the space .
They also gave us a way to run power and rewire the trailer without tearing out the skin , so they function as an electrical chase .
That 's the trailer , pretty much finished .
That trailer led to another commission , to participate in whats called Tokyo Designers Block .
Its a week of furniture design events in Tokyo , in October .
Teruo Kurosaki , who owns a furniture company called Idee , he asked me to ship him two trailers to Tokyo .
He said one he would like to make a real trailer , functioning , and we would sell that one .
Trailer number two , you have a blank slate , you can to anything you want .
We came up with a fantasy scenario of a DJ traveling around the States , that would collect records and go on tours .
This trailer housed two turntables , mixer , wet bar , fridge , integrated sound system .
It 's got a huge couch , fits quite a few people , and basically we 'd had a great time with this .
And so in this trailer I took it upon myself to think about travel , and escape , in an idiosyncratic sense .
A lot of these ideas migrated into the production trailers for Airstream .
This brings us up to the time that I started consulting to Airstream .
They came to me and said , " Well , what can we do to freshen this thing up ?
And do you think kids , you know , skateboarders , surfers , rock climbers , would use these things ? "
And I said , " Well , not in that interior . "
Anyway , I went out to Airstream about six times during the process of building this prototype , and it 's called the Bambi prototype .
I thought , " Finally , oh yeah great , big company , I 'm gonna work with somebody with money for tooling and molding . "
And I walked in their prototype facility , and it 's exactly like my shop , only bigger -- same tools , same things .
So the problem became -- and they set this dilemma to me -- that you have to design the interior using only our existing technology , and there 's no money for tooling or molding .
The trailers themselves are actually hand-built .
All the casework is hand-scribed in , uniquely , so you can 't just cut 100 parts for 100 trailers , you have to cut them big , and every single one is hand-fit .
They didn 't want to go to a componentized system .
And there it is , that 's the Bambi 16 .
Elliot Krane : The mystery of chronic pain
We think of pain as a symptom , but there are cases where the nervous system develops feedback loops and pain becomes a terrifying disease in itself . Starting with the story of a girl whose sprained wrist turned into a nightmare , Elliot Krane talks about the complex mystery of chronic pain , and reviews the facts we 're just learning about how it works and how to treat it .
I 'm a pediatrician and an anesthesiologist , so I put children to sleep for a living .
And I 'm an academic , so I put audiences to sleep for free .
But what I actually mostly do is I manage the pain management service at the Packard Children 's Hospital up at Stanford in Palo Alto .
And it 's from the experience from about 20 or 25 years of doing that that I want to bring to you the message this morning , that pain is a disease .
Now most of the time , you think of pain as a symptom of a disease , and that 's true most of the time .
It 's the symptom of a tumor or an infection or an inflammation or an operation .
But about 10 percent of the time , after the patient has recovered from one of those events , pain persists .
It persists for months and oftentimes for years , and when that happens , it is its own disease .
And before I tell you about how it is that we think that happens and what we can do about it , I want to show you how it feels for my patients .
So imagine , if you will , that I 'm stroking your arm with this feather , as I 'm stroking my arm right now .
Now , I want you to imagine that I 'm stroking it with this .
Please keep your seat .
A very different feeling .
Now what does it have to do with chronic pain ?
Imagine , if you will , these two ideas together .
Imagine what your life would be like if I were to stroke it with this feather , but your brain was telling you that this is what you are feeling -- and that is the experience of my patients with chronic pain .
In fact , imagine something even worse .
Imagine I were to stroke your child 's arm with this feather , and their brain [ was ] telling them that they were feeling this hot torch .
That was the experience of my patient , Chandler , whom you see in the photograph .
As you can see , she 's a beautiful , young woman .
She was 16 years old last year when I met her , and she aspired to be a professional dancer .
And during the course of one of her dance rehearsals , she fell on her outstretched arm and sprained her wrist .
Now you would probably imagine , as she did , that a wrist sprain is a trivial event in a person 's life .
Wrap it in an ACE bandage , take some ibuprofen for a week or two , and that 's the end of the story .
But in Chandler 's case , that was the beginning of the story .
This is what her arm looked like when she came to my clinic about three months after her sprain .
You can see that the arm is discolored , purplish in color .
It was cadaverically cold to the touch .
The muscles were frozen , paralyzed -- dystonic is how we refer to that .
The pain had spread from her wrist to her hands , to her fingertips , from her wrist up to her elbow , almost all the way to her shoulder .
But the worst part was , not the spontaneous pain that was there 24 hours a day .
The worst part was that she had allodynia , the medical term for the phenomenon that I just illustrated with the feather and with the torch .
The lightest touch of her arm -- the touch of a hand , the touch even of a sleeve , of a garment , as she put it on -- caused excruciating , burning pain .
How can the nervous system get this so wrong ?
How can the nervous system misinterpret an innocent sensation like the touch of a hand and turn it into the malevolent sensation of the touch of the flame ?
Well you probably imagine that the nervous system in the body is hardwired like your house .
In your house , wires run in the wall , from the light switch to a junction box in the ceiling and from the junction box to the light bulb .
And when you turn the switch on , the light goes on .
And when you turn the switch off , the light goes off .
So people imagine the nervous system is just like that .
If you hit your thumb with a hammer , these wires in your arm -- that , of course , we call nerves -- transmit the information into the junction box in the spinal cord where new wires , new nerves , take the information up to the brain where you become consciously aware that your thumb is now hurt .
But the situation , of course , in the human body is far more complicated than that .
Instead of it being the case that that junction box in the spinal cord is just simple where one nerve connects with the next nerve by releasing these little brown packets of chemical information called neurotransmitters in a linear one-on-one fashion , in fact , what happens is the neurotransmitters spill out in three dimensions -- laterally , vertically , up and down in the spinal cord -- and they start interacting with other adjacent cells .
These cells , called glial cells , were once thought to be unimportant structural elements of the spinal cord that did nothing more than hold all the important things together , like the nerves .
But it turns out the glial cells have a vital role in the modulation , amplification and , in the case of pain , the distortion of sensory experiences .
These glial cells become activated .
Their DNA starts to synthesize new proteins , which spill out and interact with adjacent nerves , and they start releasing their neurotransmitters , and those neurotransmitters spill out and activate adjacent glial cells , and so on and so forth , until what we have is a positive feedback loop .
It 's almost as if somebody came into your home and rewired your walls so that the next time you turned on the light switch , the toilet flushed three doors down , or your dishwasher went on , or your computer monitor turned off .
That 's crazy , but that 's , in fact , what happens with chronic pain .
And that 's why pain becomes its own disease .
The nervous system has plasticity .
It changes , and it morphs in response to stimuli .
Well , what do we do about that ?
What can we do in a case like Chandler 's ?
We treat these patients in a rather crude fashion at this point in time .
We treat them with symptom-modifying drugs -- painkillers -- which are , frankly , not very effective for this kind of pain .
We take nerves that are noisy and active that should be quiet , and we put them to sleep with local anesthetics .
And most importantly , what we do is we use a rigorous , and often uncomfortable , process of physical therapy and occupational therapy to retrain the nerves in the nervous system to respond normally to the activities and sensory experiences that are part of everyday life .
And we support all of that with an intensive psychotherapy program to address the despondency , despair and depression that always accompanies severe , chronic pain .
It 's successful , as you can see from this video of Chandler , who , two months after we first met her , is now doings a back flip .
And I had lunch with her yesterday because she 's a college student studying dance at Long Beach here , and she 's doing absolutely fantastic .
But the future is actually even brighter .
The future holds the promise that new drugs will be developed that are not symptom-modifying drugs that simply mask the problem , as we have now , but that will be disease-modifying drugs that will actually go right to the root of the problem and attack those glial cells , or those pernicious proteins that the glial cells elaborate , that spill over and cause this central nervous system wind-up , or plasticity , that so is capable of distorting and amplifying the sensory experience that we call pain .
So I have hope that in the future , the prophetic words of George Carlin will be realized , who said , " My philosophy : No pain , no pain . "
Bruce Aylward : How we 'll stop polio for good
Polio is almost completely eradicated . But as Bruce Aylward says : Almost isn 't good enough with a disease this terrifying . Aylward lays out the plan to continue the scientific miracle that ended polio in most of the world -- and to snuff it out everywhere , forever .
I want to share with you over the next 18 minutes a pretty incredible idea .
Actually , it 's a really big idea .
But to get us started , I want to ask if everyone could just close your eyes for two seconds and try and think of a technology or a bit of science that you think has changed the world .
Now I bet , in this audience , you 're thinking of some really incredible technology , some stuff that I haven 't even heard of , I 'm absolutely sure .
But I 'm also sure , pretty sure , that absolutely nobody is thinking of this .
This is a polio vaccine .
And it 's a great thing actually that nobody 's had to think about it here today because it means that we can take this for granted .
This is a great technology .
We can take it completely for granted .
But it wasn 't always that way .
Even here in California , if we were to go back just a few years , it was a very different story .
People were terrified of this disease .
They were terrified of polio , and it would cause public panic .
And it was because of scenes like this .
In this scene , people are living in an iron lung .
These are people who were perfectly healthy two or three days before , and then two days later , they can no longer breathe , and this polio virus has paralyzed not only their arms and their legs , but also their breathing muscles .
And they were going to spend the rest of their lives , usually , in this iron lung to breathe for them .
This disease was terrifying .
There was no cure , and there was no vaccine .
The disease was so terrifying that the president of the United States launched an extraordinary national effort to find a way to stop it .
Twenty years later , they succeeded and developed the polio vaccine .
It was hailed as a scientific miracle in the late 1950s .
Finally , a vaccine that could stop this awful disease , and here in the United States it had an incredible impact .
As you can see , the virus stopped , and it stopped very , very fast .
But this wasn 't the case everywhere in the world .
And it happened so fast in the United States , however , that even just last month Jon Stewart said this : Jon Stewart : Where is polio still active ?
Because I thought that had been eradicated in the way that smallpox had been eradicated .
Bruce Aylward : Oops . Jon , polio 's almost been eradicated .
But the reality is that polio still exists today .
We made this map for Jon to try to show him exactly where polio still exists .
This is the picture .
There 's not very much left in the world .
But the reason there 's not very much left is because there 's been an extraordinary public / private partnership working behind the scenes , almost unknown , I 'm sure to most of you here today .
It 's been working for 20 years to try and eradicate this disease , and it 's got it down to these few cases that you can see here on this graphic .
But just last year , we had an incredible shock and realized that almost just isn 't good enough with a virus like polio .
And this is the reason : in two countries that hadn 't had this disease for more than probably a decade , on opposite sides of the globe , there was suddenly terrible polio outbreaks .
Hundreds of people were paralyzed .
Hundreds of people died -- children as well as adults .
And in both cases , we were able to use genetic sequencing to look at the polio viruses , and we could tell these viruses were not from these countries .
They had come from thousands of miles away .
And in one case , it originated on another continent .
And not only that , but when they came into these countries , then they got on commercial jetliners probably and they traveled even farther to other places like Russia , where , for the first time in over a decade last year , children were crippled and paralyzed by a disease that they had not seen for years .
Now all of these outbreaks that I just showed you , these are under control now , and it looks like they 'll probably stop very , very quickly .
But the message was very clear .
Polio is still a devastating , explosive disease .
It 's just happening in another part of the world .
And our big idea is that the scientific miracle of this decade should be the complete eradication of poliomyelitis .
So I want to tell you a little bit about what this partnership , the Polio Partnership , is trying to do .
We 're not trying to control polio .
We 're not trying to get it down to just a few cases , because this disease is like a root fire ; it can explode again if you don 't snuff it out completely .
So what we 're looking for is a permanent solution .
We want a world in which every child , just like you guys , can take for granted a polio-free world .
So we 're looking for a permanent solution , and this is where we get lucky .
This is one of the very few viruses in the world where there are big enough cracks in its armor that we can try to do something truly extraordinary .
This virus can only survive in people .
It can 't live for a very long time in people .
It doesn 't survive in the environment hardly at all .
And we 've got pretty good vaccines , as I 've just showed you .
So we are trying to wipe out this virus completely .
What the polio eradication program is trying to do is to kill the virus itself that causes polio everywhere on Earth .
Now we don 't have a great track record when it comes to doing something like this , to eradicating diseases .
It 's been tried six times in the last century , and it 's been successful exactly once .
And this is because disease eradication , it 's still the venture capital of public health .
The risks are massive , but the pay-off -- economic , humanitarian , motivational -- it 's absolutely huge .
One congressman here in the United States thinks that the entire investment that the U .S . put into smallpox eradication pays itself off every 26 days -- in foregone treatment costs and vaccination costs .
And if we can finish polio eradication , the poorest countries in the world are going to save over 50 billion dollars in the next 25 years alone .
So those are the kind of stakes that we 're after .
But smallpox eradication was hard ; it was very , very hard .
And polio eradication , in many ways , is even tougher , and there 's a few reasons for that .
The first is that , when we started trying to eradicate polio about 20 years ago , more than twice as many countries were infected than had been when we started off with smallpox .
And there were more than 10 times as many people living in these countries .
So it was a massive effort .
The second challenge we had was -- in contrast to the smallpox vaccine , which was very stable , and a single dose protected you for life -- the polio vaccine is incredibly fragile .
It deteriorates so quickly in the tropics that we 've had to put this special vaccine monitor on every single vial so that it will change very quickly when it 's exposed to too much heat , and we can tell that it 's not a good vaccine to use on a child -- it 's not potent ; it 's not going to protect them .
Even then , kids need many doses of the vaccine .
But the third challenge we have -- and probably even bigger one , the biggest challenge -- is that , in contrast to smallpox where you could always see your enemy -- every single person almost who was infected with smallpox had this telltale rash .
So you could get around the disease ; you could vaccinate around the disease and cut it off .
With polio it 's almost completely different .
The vast majority of people who are infected with the polio virus show absolutely no sign of the disease .
So you can 't see the enemy most of the time , and as a result , we 've needed a very different approach to eradicate polio than what was done with smallpox .
We 've had to create one of the largest social movements in history .
There 's over 10 million people , probably 20 million people , largely volunteers , who have been working over the last 20 years in what has now been called the largest internationally-coordinated operation in peacetime .
These people , these 20 million people , vaccinate over 500 million children every single year , multiple times at the peak of our operation .
Now giving the polio vaccine is simple .
It 's just two drops , like that .
But reaching 500 million people is much , much tougher .
And these vaccinators , these volunteers , they have got to dive headlong into some of the toughest , densest urban slums in the world .
They 've got to trek under sweltering suns to some of the most remote , difficult to reach places in the world .
And they also have to dodge bullets , because we have got to operate during shaky cease-fires and truces to try and vaccinate children , even in areas affected by conflict .
One reporter who was watching our program in Somalia about five years ago -- a place which has eradicated polio , not once , but twice , because they got reinfected .
He was sitting outside of the road , watching one of these polio campaigns unfold , and a few months later he wrote : " This is foreign aid at its most heroic . "
And these heroes , they come from every walk of life , all sorts of backgrounds .
But one of the most extraordinary is Rotary International .
This is a group whose million-strong army of volunteers have been working to eradicate polio for over 20 years .
They 're right at the center of the whole thing .
Now it took years to build up the infrastructure for polio eradication -- more than 15 years , much longer than it should have -- but once it was built , the results were striking .
Within a couple of years , every country that started polio eradication rapidly eradicated all three of their polio viruses , with the exception of four countries that you see here .
And in each of those , it was only part of the country .
And then , by 1999 , one of the three polio viruses that we were trying to eradicate had been completely eradicated worldwide -- proof of concept .
And then today , there 's been a 99 percent reduction -- greater than 99 percent reduction -- in the number of children who are being paralyzed by this awful disease .
When we started , over 20 years ago , 1 ,000 children were being paralyzed every single day by this virus .
Last year , it was 1 ,000 .
And at the same time , the polio eradication program has been working to help with a lot of other areas .
It 's been working to help control pandemic flu , SARS for example .
It 's also tried to save children by doing other things -- giving vitamin A drops , giving measles shots , giving bed nets against malaria even during some of these campaigns .
But the most exciting thing that the polio eradication program has been doing has been to force us , the international community , to reach every single child , every single community , the most vulnerable people in the world , with the most basic of health services , irrespective of geography , poverty , culture and even conflict .
So things were looking very exciting , and then about five years ago , this virus , this ancient virus , started to fight back .
The first problem we ran into was that , in these last four countries , the strongholds of this virus , we just couldn 't seem to get the virus rooted out .
And then to make the matters even worse , the virus started to spread out of these four places , especially northern India and northern Nigeria , into much of Africa , Asia , and even into Europe , causing horrific outbreaks in places that had not seen this disease for decades .
And then , in one of the most important , tenacious and toughest reservoirs of the polio virus in the world , we found that our vaccine was working half as well as it should have .
In conditions like this , the vaccine just couldn 't get the grip it needed to in the guts of these children and protect them the way that it needed to .
Now at that time , there was a great , as you can imagine , frustration -- let 's call it frustration -- it started to grow very , very quickly .
We should abandon this idea of eradication .
Let 's settle for control -- that 's good enough . "
Now as seductive as the idea of control sounds , it 's a false premise .
The brutal truth is , if we don 't have the will or the skill , or even the money that we need to reach children , the most vulnerable children in the world , with something as simple as an oral polio vaccine , then pretty soon , more than 200 ,000 children are again going to be paralyzed by this disease every single year .
There 's absolutely no question .
These are children like Umar .
Umar is seven years old , and he 's from northern Nigeria .
He lives in a family home there with his eight brothers and sisters .
Umar also has polio .
Umar was paralyzed for life .
His right leg was paralyzed in 2004 .
This leg , his right leg , now takes an awful beating because he has to half-crawl , because it 's faster to move that way to keep up with his friends , keep up with his brothers and sisters , than to get up on his crutches and walk .
But Umar is a fantastic student . He 's an incredible kid .
As you probably can 't see the detail here , but this is his report card , and you 'll see , he 's got perfect scores .
He got 100 percent in all the important things , like nursery rhymes , for example there .
But you know I 'd love to be able to tell you that Umar is a typical kid with polio these days , but it 's not true .
Umar is an exceptional kid in exceptional circumstances .
The reality of polio today is something very different .
Polio strikes the poorest communities in the world .
But as we tried these extraordinary things , as people went to this trouble to try and rework their tactics , we went back to the vaccine -- it 's a 50-year-old vaccine -- and we thought , surely we can make a better vaccine , so that when they finally get to these kids , we can have a better bang for our buck .
And this started an incredible collaboration with industry , and within six months , we were testing a new polio vaccine that targeted , just two years ago , the last two types of polio in the world .
Now June the ninth , 2009 , we got the first results from the first trial with this vaccine , and it turned out to be a game-changer .
The new vaccine had twice the impact on these last couple of viruses as the old vaccine had , and we immediately started using this .
Well , in a couple of months we had to get it out of production .
And it started rolling off the production lines and into the mouths of children around the world .
And we didn 't start with the easy places .
The first place this vaccine was used was in southern Afghanistan , because it 's in places like that where kids are going to benefit the most from technologies like this .
Now here at TED , over the last couple of days , I 've seen people challenging the audience again and again to believe in the impossible .
So this morning at about seven o 'clock , I decided that we 'd try to drive Chris and the production crew here berserk by downloading all of our data from India again , so that you could see something that 's just unfolding today , which proves that the impossible is possible .
And only two years ago , people were saying that this is impossible .
Now remember , northern India is the perfect storm when it comes to polio .
Over 500 ,000 children are born in the two states that have never stopped polio -- Uttar Pradesh and Bihar -- 500 ,000 children every single month .
Sanitation is terrible , and our old vaccine , you remember , worked half as well as it should have .
And yet , the impossible is happening .
Today marks exactly six months -- and for the first time in history , not a single child has been paralyzed in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar .
India 's not unique .
In Umar 's home country of Nigeria , a 95 percent reduction in the number of children paralyzed by polio last year .
And in the last six months , we 've had less places reinfected by polio than at any other time in history .
Ladies and gentlemen , with a combination of smart people , smart technology and smart investments , polio can now be eradicated anywhere .
We have major challenges , you can imagine , to finish this job , but as you 've also seen , it 's doable , it has great secondary benefits , and polio eradication is a great buy .
And as long as any child anywhere is paralyzed by this virus , it 's a stark reminder that we are failing , as a society , to reach children with the most basic of services .
And for that reason , polio eradication : it 's the ultimate in equity and it 's the ultimate in social justice .
The huge social movement that 's been involved in polio eradication is ready to do way more for these children .
It 's ready to reach them with bed nets , with other things .
But capitalizing on their enthusiasm , capitalizing on their energy means finishing the job that they started 20 years ago .
Finishing polio is a smart thing to do , and it 's the right thing to do .
Now we 're in tough times economically .
But as David Cameron of the United Kingdom said about a month ago when he was talking about polio , " There 's never a wrong time to do the right thing . "
Finishing polio eradication is the right thing to do .
And we are at a crossroads right now in this great effort over the last 20 years .
We have a new vaccine , we have new resolve , and we have new tactics .
We have the chance to write an entirely new polio-free chapter in human history .
But if we blink now , we will lose forever the chance to eradicate an ancient disease .
Here 's a great idea to spread : End polio now .
Help us tell the story .
Help us build the momentum so that very soon every child , every parent everywhere can also take for granted a polio-free life forever .
Bill Gates : Well Bruce , where do you think the toughest places are going to be ?
Where would you say we need to be the smartest ?
B The four places where you saw , that we 've never stopped -- northern Nigeria , northern India , the southern corner of Afghanistan and bordering areas of Pakistan -- they 're going to be the toughest .
But the interesting thing is , of those three , India 's looking real good , as you just saw in the data .
And Afghanistan , Afghanistan , we think has probably stopped polio repeatedly .
It keeps getting reinfected .
So the tough ones : going to get the top of Nigeria finished and getting Pakistan finished .
They 're going to be the tough ones .
Now what about the money ?
Give us a sense of how much the campaign costs a year .
And is it easy to raise that money ?
And what 's it going to be like the next couple of years ?
B It 's interesting .
We spend right now about 750 million to 800 million dollars a year .
That 's what it costs to reach 500 million children .
It sounds like a lot of money ; it is a lot of money .
But when you 're reaching 500 million children multiple times -- 20 , 30 cents to reach a child -- that 's not very much money .
But right now we don 't have enough of that .
We have a big gap in that money . We 're cutting corners , and every time we cut corners , more places get infected that shouldn 't have , and it just slows us down .
And that great buy costs us a little bit more .
Well , hopefully we 'll get the word out , and the governments will keep their generosity up .
So good luck . We 're all in this with you .
Frank Warren : Half a million secrets
" Secrets can take many forms -- they can be shocking , or silly , or soulful . " Frank Warren , the founder of PostSecret .com , shares some of the half-million secrets that strangers have mailed him on postcards .
Hi , my name is Frank , and I collect secrets .
It all started with a crazy idea in November of 2004 .
I printed up 3 ,000 self-addressed postcards , just like this .
They were blank on one side , and on the other side I listed some simple instructions .
I asked people to anonymously share an artful secret they 'd never told anyone before .
And I handed out these postcards randomly on the streets of Washington , D .C . , not knowing what to expect .
But soon the idea began spreading virally .
People began to buy their own postcards and make their own postcards .
They can be shocking or silly or soulful .
They can connect us to our deepest humanity or with people we 'll never meet .
Maybe one of you sent this one in .
I don 't know .
This one does a great job of demonstrating the creativity that people have when they make and mail me a postcard .
This one obviously was made out of half a Starbucks cup with a stamp and my home address written on the other side .
" Dear Birthmother , I have great parents .
I 've found love . I 'm happy . "
Secrets can remind us of the countless human dramas , of frailty and heroism , playing out silently in the lives of people all around us even now .
" Everyone who knew me before 9 / 11 believes I 'm dead . "
" I used to work with a bunch of uptight religious people , so sometimes I didn 't wear panties , and just had a big smile and chuckled to myself . "
This next one takes a little explanation before I share it with you .
I love to speak on college campuses and share secrets and the stories with students .
And sometimes afterwards I 'll stick around and sign books and take photos with students .
And this next postcard was made out of one of those photos .
And I should also mention that , just like today , at that PostSecret event , I was using a wireless microphone .
" Your mic wasn 't off during sound check .
We all heard you pee . "
This was really embarrassing when it happened , until I realized it could have been worse .
" Inside this envelope is the ripped up remains of a suicide note I didn 't use .
I feel like the happiest person on Earth " " One of these men is the father of my son .
He pays me a lot to keep it a secret . "
" That Saturday when you wondered where I was , well , I was getting your ring .
It 's in my pocket right now . "
I had this postcard posted on the PostSecret blog two years ago on Valentine 's Day .
It was the very bottom , the last secret in the long column .
And it hadn 't been up for more than a couple hours before I received this exuberant email from the guy who mailed me this postcard .
And he said , " Frank , I 've got to share with you this story that just played out in my life . "
He said , " My knees are still shaking . "
He said , " For three years , my girlfriend and I , we 've made it this Sunday morning ritual to visit the PostSecret blog together and read the secrets out loud .
I read some to her , she reads some to me . "
He says , " It 's really brought us closer together through the years .
And so when I discovered that you had posted my surprise proposal to my girlfriend at the very bottom , I was beside myself .
And I tried to act calm , not to give anything away .
And just like every Sunday , we started reading the secrets out loud to each other . "
He said , " But this time it seemed like it was taking her forever to get through each one . "
But she finally did .
She got to that bottom secret , his proposal to her .
And he said , " She read it once and then she read it again . "
And she turned to him and said , " Is that our cat ? "
And when she saw him , he was down on one knee , he had the ring out .
He popped the question , she said yes . It was a very happy ending .
So I emailed him back and I said , " Please share with me an image , something , that I can share with the whole PostSecret community and let everyone know your fairy tale ending . "
And he emailed me this picture .
" I found your camera at Lollapalooza this summer .
I finally got the pictures developed and I 'd love to give them to you . "
This picture never got returned back to the people who lost it , but this secret has impacted many lives , starting with a student up in Canada named Matty .
Matty was inspired by that secret to start his own website , a website called IFoundYourCamera .
Matty invites people to mail him digital cameras that they 've found , memory sticks that have been lost with orphan photos .
And Matty takes the pictures off these cameras and posts them on his website every week .
And people come to visit to see if they can identify a picture they 've lost or help somebody else get the photos back to them that they might be desperately searching for .
This one 's my favorite .
Matty has found this ingenious way to leverage the kindness of strangers .
And it might seem like a simple idea , and it is , but the impact it can have on people 's lives can be huge .
Matty shared with me an emotional email he received from the mother in that picture .
" That 's me , my husband and son .
The other pictures are of my very ill grandmother .
Thank you for making your site .
These pictures mean more to me than you know .
My son 's birth is on this camera .
He turns four tomorrow . "
Every picture that you see there and thousands of others have been returned back to the person who lost it -- sometimes crossing oceans , sometimes going through language barriers .
This is the last postcard I have to share with you today .
" When people I love leave voicemails on my phone I always save them in case they die tomorrow and I have no other way of hearing their voice ever again . "
When I posted this secret , dozens of people sent voicemail messages from their phones , sometimes ones they 'd been keeping for years , messages from family or friends who had died .
They said that by preserving those voices and sharing them , it helped them keep the spirit of their loved ones alive .
One young girl posted the last message she ever heard from her grandmother .
They can connect us with our deepest humanity or with people we 'll never meet again .
Voicemail recording : First saved voice message .
It 's somebody 's birthday today Somebody 's birthday today The candles are lighted on somebody 's cake And we 're all invited for somebody 's sake You 're 21 years old today .
Have a real happy birthday , and I love you .
I 'll say bye for now .
Frank , that was beautiful , so touching .
Have you ever sent yourself a postcard ?
Have you ever sent in a secret to PostSecret ?
I have one of my own secrets in every book .
I think in some ways , the reason I started the project , even though I didn 't know it at the time , was because I was struggling with my own secrets .
And it was through crowd-sourcing , it was through the kindness that strangers were showing me , that I could uncover parts of my past that were haunting me .
And has anyone ever discovered which secret was yours in the book ?
Has anyone in your life been able to tell ?
Sometimes I share that information , yeah .
Tony Porter : A call to men
At TEDWomen , Tony Porter makes a call to men everywhere : Don 't " act like a man . " Telling powerful stories from his own life , he shows how this mentality , drummed into so many men and boys , can lead men to disrespect , mistreat and abuse women and each other . His solution : Break free of the " man box . "
I grew up in New York City , between Harlem and the Bronx .
It turned what could have been seven of the grimmest years of our life into seven of the most glorious .
It was also an expensive fight .
It was the kind of fight and the kind of choices that everyone here agrees pump up the cost of end-of-life care , and of healthcare for all of us .
And for me , for us , we pushed the fight right over the edge , and I never got the chance to say to him what I say to him now almost every day : " Hey , buddy , it was a hell of a ride . "
Thank you very much .
Thank you .
Thank you guys .
Thank you .
Thank you very much .
I don 't know .
Okay .
Thank you very much .
Thank you .
Okay .
All right .
Thank you very much .
All right .
Thank you .
Okay .
 Summary 
Pop music is a type of popular music that many people like to listen to .
The term "pop music" can be used for all kinds of music that was written to be popular .
The word "pop music" was used from about 1880 onwards , when a type of music called music was popular .
Styles of pop music in the 2010s (today) include rock music , electronic dance music and hip hop .
Pop muic tends to change quite a lot so the description is quite flexible .
 History 
Modern pop music grew out of 1950s rock and roll , (for example Chuck Berry , Bo Diddley and Little Richard) and rockabilly (for example Elvis Presley and Buddy Holly) .
In the 1960s , The Beatles became a famous pop music group .
In the 1970s , other styles of music were mixed with pop music , such as funk and soul music .
Pop music generally has a heavy (strong) beat , so that it is good for dancing .
Pop singers normally sing with microphones that are plugged into an amplifier and a loudspeaker .
 How does the business of pop music work ? 
There are also many more people working on pop music who are not seen on the stage or in the video .
These people include the studio staff (people who help the musicians to record CDs and music videos in music studios) , production staff (people who help make the music recordings sound good) , distribution staff (people who help sell the music to stores) and retail staff (people that sell the music to people at CD stores) .
Tour staff help the band to travel around the country (or around the world) for their concert tours .
Some tour staff help by carrying heavy musical instruments onto the stage .
Other tour staff drive buses or cars , so that the band can get to the concert .
Some tour staff operate sound equipment , such as the large amplifiers and loudspeakers that are used to amplify (make louder) the band's music for the audience .
Promotional staff help to market or promote the band's music , so that more people will know about the band , and buy the band's CDs .
Some promotional staff travel to radio stations and give the band's CD to radio station managers or DJs (disk jockeys : the people who announce songs on the radio) .
Other promotional staff write press releases (short articles) about the band which are sent to the newspapers .
 Types of music that became pop music 
Pop music came from the Rock and Roll movement of the early 1950s , when record companies recorded songs that they thought that teenagers would like .
Pop music usually uses musical from the other types of music that are popular at the time .
Many different styles of music have become pop music during different time periods .
Often , music companies create pop music styles by taking a style of music that only a small number of people were listening to , and then making that music more popular by marketing it to teenagers and young adults .
In the 1950s , recording companies took blues-influenced rock and roll (for example Chuck Berry and Bo Diddley) and rockabilly (for example Carl Perkins and Buddy Holly) and promoted them as pop music .
In the late 1960s and early 1970s , record companies took folk music bands and musicians and helped them to create a new type of music called folk rock or acid rock .
Folk rock and acid rock mixed folk music , blues and rock and roll (for example The Byrds and Janis Joplin) .
In the 1970s , record companies created several harder , louder type of blues called blues rock or heavy metal , which became a type of pop music (for example the bands Led Zeppelin and Judas Priest) .
In the late 1970s and early 1980s , a type of nightclub dance music called Disco turned into a popular type of pop music .
Record companies took an experimental , strange-sounding type of music called New Wave music from the 1980s and turned it into pop music bands such as The Cars .
In the 1990s record companies took an underground type of hard rock called Grunge (for example the band Nirvana) .
Michael Jackson was also a very influential artist for pop music .
His album , Thriller , is the best-selling album of all time .
He also wrote some other very influential songs , such as "Bad" , "Give In to Me" , "Will You Be There" , "Heal the World" , "We Are the World" , "Black or White" , and "Billie Jean" , just to name a few .
By the 21st century (after the demise of disco in the 1980s)  Contemporary R&B became pop music .
Examples of Contemporary R&B artists that have a wide pop appeal are Usher , Beyoncé , Rihanna , Chris Brown and more .
 Sources 
 Summary 
Also known as Qua'atit , Quatit (Tigrinya : ኮዓቲት) is a town located in the Debub region of Eritrea .
It sits about 16 kilometers (10 mi) west of Adi Keyih .
 Geography 
Quatit is located in southern Eritrea , approximately 100 km from the capital city of Asmara .
The right of asylum (sometimes called right of political asylum) is an ancient juridical concept , under which a person persecuted by his own country may be protected by another sovereign authority .
This could be another country or church official , who in medieval times could offer sanctuary .
This right was already recognised by the Egyptians , the Greeks , and the Hebrews , from whom it was adopted into Western tradition .
The Egyptians , Greeks , and Hebrews recognised a religious "right of asylum" , protecting criminals (or those accused of crime) from legal action to some extent .
This principle was later adopted by the established Christian church , and various rules were developed that detailed how to qualify for protection and what degree of protection one would receive .
The Council of Orleans decided in 511 , in the presence of Clovis I , that asylum could be granted to anyone who took refuge in a church or on church property , or at the home of a bishop .
This protection was extended to murderers , thieves and adulterers alike .
Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that "Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution" .
The United Nations 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees guides national legislation concerning political asylum .
Under these agreements , a refugee (or for cases where repressing base means has been applied directly or environmentally to the refugee) is a person who is outside that person's own country's territory (or place of habitual residence if stateless) owing to fear of persecution on protected grounds . Protected grounds include race , caste , nationality , religion , political opinions and membership and/or participation in any particular social group or social activities . Rendering true victims of persecution to their persecutor is a violation of a principle called non-refoulement , part of the customary and Law of Nations .
These are the accepted terms and criteria as principles and a fundamental part in the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees non-refoulement order .
Since the 1990s , victims of sexual persecution (which may include domestic violence , or systematic oppression of a gender or sexual minority) have come to be accepted in some countries as a legitimate category for asylum claims , when claimants can prove that the state is unable or unwilling to provide protection .
Sadness
Sadness is an emotional pain associated with , or characterized by , feelings of disadvantage , loss , despair , grief , helplessness , disappointment and sorrow . An individual experiencing sadness may become quiet or lethargic , and withdraw themselves from others . An example of severe sadness is depression , a mood which can be brought on by major depressive disorder or persistent depressive disorder . Crying can be anindication of sadness .
Sadness is one of the "six basic emotions" described by Paul Ekman , along with happiness , anger , surprise , fear , and disgust .
Childhood
Sadness is a common experience in childhood . Some families may have a (conscious or unconscious) rule that sadness is "not allowed" ,but Robin Skynnerhas suggested that this may cause problems , arguing that with sadness "screened off" , people can become shallow and manic .Pediatrician T . Berry Brazelton suggests that acknowledging sadness can make it easier for families to address more serious emotional problems .
Sadness is part of the normal process of the child separating from an early symbiosis with the mother and becoming more independent . Every time a child separates a little more , he or she will have to cope with a small loss . If the mother cannot allow the minor distress involved , the child may never learn how to deal with sadness by themselves .Brazelton argues that too much cheering a child up devalues the emotion of sadness for them ; and Selma Fraiberg suggests that it is important to respect a child's right to experience a loss fully and deeply .
Margaret Mahler also saw the ability to feel sadness as an emotional achievement , as opposed for example to warding it off through restless hyperactivity .D . W . Winnicott similarly saw in sad crying the psychological root of valuable musical experiences in later life .
 Summary 
A school is a place where people go to learn about topics like reading , writing and mathematics .
In a school or university , one or more teachers help students to learn .In many places around the world , all children have to go to school for a certain number of years .
Learning may take place in the classroom , in outside environments or on visits to other places .
Colleges and universities are places to learn for students over 17 or 18 .
Vocational schools teach skills people need for jobs .
Some people attend school longer than others .
This is because some jobs require more training than others .
For young children , one teacher is able to teach all subjects .
Teachers for older students are often specialized and they only teach a few subjects .
Common subjects taught include science , arts such as music , humanities , like geography and history , and languages .
Children with mental issues which are difficult to handle are not required to go to regular schools .
These children are given other ways to get schooling .
There also are special schools which teach things which regular schools do not .
Graduate schools are for students who have graduated from college .
 Schools for boys and schools for girls 
Education for all is quite modern .
In England , for example , most people could not read or write , even in the 18th century .
We know this because when they got married , those who could not write put an 'X' on the certificate , and someone else wrote their name .
Mass education for reading and writing began in the 19th century .
Originally , in most countries , boys were taught differently and separately from girls .
Some schools are for boys and some schools are for girls ; they only accept boys , or girls , but not both .
Long ago , most schools were run by religious denominations .
That is because clerics were once almost the only people who were literate .
Since there are only men in a monastery , this was often also true for the school , which only accepted boys .
Going to a school also meant learning about religion .
Some places still do not have schools for girls .
 School as a place to learn for life 
In many parts of the world , schools also help children learn things about life .
In school , pupils develop their personality .
Schools teach pupils about religion and ethics .
Schools help people recognise socially accepted norms and behaviour .Pedagogy is the science of teaching children .
Different schools use different ways of teaching .
There is quite a lot of disagreement about what and how students should be taught .
Many countries solve this by allowing different types of school , so parents and children have some choice .
Choices may include home education .
 Summary 
A shoe is an item of footwear intended to protect and comfort the human foot while the wearer is doing various activities .
Shoes are also used as an item of decoration and fashion .
The design of shoes has varied enormously through time and from culture to culture , with appearance originally being tied to function .
Additionally , fashion has often dictated many design elements , such as whether shoes have very high heels or flat ones .
Contemporary footwear in the 2010s varies widely in style , complexity and cost .
Basic sandals may consist of only a thin sole and simple strap and be sold for a low cost .
High fashion shoes made by famous designers may be made of expensive materials , use complex construction and sell for hundreds or even thousands of dollars a pair .
Some shoes are designed for specific purposes , such as boots designed specifically for mountaineering or skiing .
Traditionally , shoes have been made from leather , wood or canvas , but in the 2010s , they are increasingly made from rubber , plastics , and other petrochemical-derived materials .
Though the human foot is adapted to varied terrain and climate conditions , it is still vulnerable to environmental hazards such as sharp rocks and temperature extremes , which shoes protect against .
Shyness
Shyness  is the feeling of apprehension , lack of comfort , or awkwardness especially when a person is around other people . This commonly occurs in new situations or with unfamiliar people . Shyness can be a characteristic of people who have low self-esteem . Stronger forms of shyness are usually referred to as social anxiety or social phobia . The primary defining characteristic of shyness is a largely ego-driven fear of what other people will think of a person's behavior . This results in a person becoming scared of doing or saying what they want to out of fear of negative reactions , being laughed at , humiliated or patronised , criticism or rejection . A shy person may simply opt to avoid social situations instead .
One important aspect of shyness is social skills development . Schools and parents may implicitly assume children are fully capable of effective social interaction . Social skills training is not given any priority (unlike reading and writing) and as a result , shy students are not given an opportunity to develop their ability to participate in class and interact with peers . Teachers can model social skills and ask questions in a less direct and intimidating manner in order to gently encourage shy students to speak up in class , and make friends with other children .
Origins
The initial cause of shyness varies . Scientists believe that they have located genetic data supporting the hypothesis that shyness is , at least , partially genetic . However , there is also evidence that suggests the environment in which a person is raised can also be responsible for their shyness . This includes child abuse , particularly emotional abuse such as ridicule . Shyness can originate after a person has experienced a physical anxiety reaction ; at other times , shyness seems to develop first and then later causes physical symptoms of anxiety . Shyness differs from social anxiety , which is a broader , often depression-related psychological condition including the experience of fear , apprehension or worrying about being evaluated by others in social situations to the extent of inducing panic .
Shyness may come from genetic traits , the environment in which a person is raised and personal experiences . Shyness may be a personality trait or can occur at certain stages of development in children .
Genetics and heredity
Shyness is often seen as a hindrance to people and their development . The cause of shyness is often disputed but it is found that fear is positively related to shyness ,suggesting that fearful children are much more likely to develop being shy as opposed to less fearful children . Shyness can also be seen on a biological level as a result of an excess of cortisol . When cortisol is present in greater quantities it is known to suppress an individual's immune system , making them more susceptible to illness and disease . The genetics of shyness is a relatively small area of research that has been receiving an even smaller amount of attention , although papers on the biological bases of shyness date back to 1988 . Some research has indicated that shyness and aggression are related—through long and short forms of the gene DRD4 , though considerably more research on this is needed . Further , it has been suggested that shyness and social phobia (the distinction between the two is becoming ever more blurred) are related to obsessive-compulsive disorder . As with other studies of behavioral genetics , the study of shyness is complicated by the number of genes involved in , and the confusion in defining , the phenotype . Naming the phenotype – and translation of terms between genetics and psychology — also causes problems .
Personality trait
Shyness is most likely to occur during unfamiliar situations , though in severe cases it may hinder an individual in their most familiar situations and relationships as well . Shy people avoid the objects of their apprehension in order to keep from feeling uncomfortable and inept ; thus , the situations remain unfamiliar and the shyness perpetuates itself . Shyness may fade with time ; e .g . , a child who is shy towards strangers may eventually lose this trait when older and become more socially adept . This often occurs by adolescence or young adulthood (generally around the age of 13) . In some cases , though , it may become an integrated , lifelong character trait . Longitudinal data suggests that the three different personality types evident in infancy easy , slow-to-warm-up , and difficult tend to change as children mature . Extreme traits become less pronounced , and personalities evolve in predictable patterns over time . What has been proven to remain constant is the tendency to internalize or externalize problems .This relates to individuals with shy personalities because they tend to internalize their problems , or dwell on their problems internally instead of expressing their concerns , which leads to disorders like depression and anxiety . Humans experience shyness to different degrees and in different areas .
 Summary 
Solar energy transformation is the energy that is in sunlight .
It has been used for thousands of years in many different ways by people all over the world .
As well as its traditional human uses in heating , cooking , and drying , it is used today to make electricity where other power supplies are absent , such as in remote places and in space .
It is becoming cheaper to make electricity from solar energy and in many situations it is now competitive with energy from coal or oil .
A solar cooker can be used for cooking food .
 Energy use 
Solar energy is used today in a number of ways :
As heat for making hot water , heating buildings , and cooking
To generate electricity with solar cells or heat engines
To take the salt away from sea water .
To use sun rays for drying clothes and towels .
It is used by plants for the process of photosynthesis .
 Energy from the Sun 
After passing through the Earth's atmosphere , most of the Sun's energy is in the form of visible light and infrared light radiation .
Plants convert the energy in sunlight into chemical energy (sugars and starches) through the process of photosynthesis .
Humans regularly use this store of energy in various ways , as when they burn wood or fossil fuels , or when simply eating plants , fish and animals .
Solar radiation reaches the Earth's upper atmosphere with the power of 1366 watts per square meter (W/m2) .
Since the Earth is round , the surface nearer its poles is angled away from the Sun and receives much less solar energy than the surface nearer the equator .
 Summary 
A grocery store (or just grocery) is a retail store that sells food .
Most grocery stores sell fresh fruit , vegetables , seafood , meat , and other prepared foods .
The person who controls a grocery store is called a grocer .
A grocer will order food from farmers or other people who send out farmers food to other grocery stores and restaurants .
 Types of grocery stores 
There are a range of different types and sizes of grocery stores .
 Summary 
Tax is money that people have to pay to the government .
The government uses the money it gets from taxes to pay for things .
For example , taxes are used to pay for people who work for the government , such as the military and police , provide services such as education and health care , and to maintain or build things like roads , bridges and sewers .
 Types of taxes 
There are many different kinds of taxes .
Taxes that are based on how much money a company earns are called corporate taxes
Taxes that are based on how much money a person earns are called income taxes .Taxes that are based on how much a person buys are called sales taxes .
Taxes that are based on how much a person owns are called a property taxes .
Things like houses have a property tax on them .
Taxes that are paid when official document are approved are called stamp duties (because in the past the document would have a stamp put on it) .
Changing who owns a house will often need a document approving .
Taxes that are paid when somebody dies are called inheritance or estate taxes .Taxes are also usually split into 3 groups
Flat taxes : Everybody pays the same percentage .
 Summary 
Tigre (Ge'ez : ትግረ tigre or ትግሬ tigrē) , better known in Eritrea by its autonym Tigrayit (ትግራይት) , and also known by speakers in Sudan as Xasa (Arabic : الخاصية‎ ḫāṣiyah) , is an Afroasiatic language spoken in Northeast Africa .
It belongs to the North Ethiopic subdivision of the family's South Semitic branch and is primarily spoken by the Tigre people in Eritrea .
Along with Tigrinya , it is believed to be the most closely related living language to Ge'ez , which is still in use as the liturgical language of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church and Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church .
Tigre has lexical similarity , 71% with Ge’ez and 64% with Tigrinya .
As of 1997 , Tigre was spoken by approximately 800 ,000 Tigre people in Eritrea .
The Tigre mainly inhabit western Eritrea , though they also reside in the northern highlands of Eritrea and its extension into the adjacent part of Sudan , as well as Eritrea's Red Sea coast north of Zula .
The Tigre people are not to be confused with their neighbors to the south , the Tigrayans of Eritrea and Ethiopia , who speak Tigrinya .
Tigrinya is also derived from the parent Ge'ez tongue , but is quite distinct from Tigre despite the similarity in name .
 Dialects 
There are several dialects of Tigre , some of them are ; Mansa’ (Mensa) , Habab , Barka (Beni-Amir) , Semhar , Algeden , Senhit (Ad-Tekleis , Ad-Temariam , Bet-Juk , Marya Kayah , Maria Tselam) and  Dahalik , which is spoken in Dahlak archipelago .
Intelligibility between the dialects is above 91% (except Dahalik) , where intelligibility between Dahalik and the other dialects is between 24% to 51% .
 Summary 
This article describes the Grammar of Tigrinya , a South Semitic language which is spoken primarily in Eritrea and Ethiopia , and is written in Ge'ez script .
 Nouns 
 Summary 
A town is usually a place with a lot of houses , but not a city .
As with cities , there is more than one way to say what a town is in different countries .
In some places , it is a kind of local government .
In English , people also use the word "town" as a general word for places with a lot of houses (cities too) .
When they say "town" they are normally thinking of a big , important place .
For example , London is a city , but people often call it "London town" ("the City of London" is a part of London where there are a lot of banks) .
Also , going from the outside to central London is to "go into town" .
Generally , the difference between towns and villages or hamlets is the sort of economy they have .
People in towns usually get money from industry (factories etc .
) , commerce (shops etc .)
and public service (working for the town) , not agriculture (growing food) .
The number of people who live in a place does not tell us if it is a town or a village .
In many areas of the world , like India , a big village can have many more people than a small town .
It is also difficult to say if a place is a town because today , some towns are becoming bigger .
Sometimes a place is a city because it got the name "city" by law .
However , people often call a place a "town" if it is small .
In the Middle Ages , a place became a town by means of a charter , which gave it town privileges .
 The United States 
In the United States of America , the meaning of the term town is different in each state .
In some states , a town is a town if the state says it is .
In other states , like Wisconsin , a town is a subdivision of a county (same as a "parish" in Louisiana) .
In other states , like Michigan , the name "town" has no official meaning .
People use it to describe any place with a lot of people .
In the six New England states , a town is a smaller part of the county .
In all six , towns do things that , in most other states , the counties do .
In many of these towns , town meetings are the main form of government , so citizens can say what happens where they live by direct democracy .In these states , the towns are really more important than the county .
In Connecticut and Rhode Island , counties are only on the map and have no power .
In the other four states , counties are mostly places with law powers .
The counties with other functions are mostly in New Hampshire and Vermont .
In New York , a town is also a smaller part of the county , but it is less important than in New England .
 England and Wales 
In the past , cities usually had a cathedral .
Middleham , North Yorkshire) .
My experience and view about Travis Foundation .
Honestly speaking , I did not have the faintest idea about the Travis foundation , before , Elsisa Glorie , one of  the Foundation’s directors , contacted me for the first time via telephone . To know more about the Foundation and to discuss about the possibility of working there ,  we arranged to meet in person in few days .
On a sunny Thursday afternoon , I reached CIC the ‘Groothandelsgebouw’ building , in front of the Rotterdam central train station ; where the Travis offices are located . I did not wait too long before two women from the foundation , Elissa and Sara received me . Their warm and amicable reception gave me an immediate impression about the hospitable environment at Travis Foundation . To further validate this impression , my short but effective conversation with Ellisa and Cornelius , gave me the opportunity to express myself and visualize what my contribution can be to achieve the mission of the foundation .
Up on the conclusion of our conversation , I went on to explore the offices and other facilities of the CIC . Accompanied by Elissa , I had the opportunity to visit the key branches  that make up the foundation . Meeting various employees with different responsibilities , gave me insight about the organizational structure of the institution . While they were engaged in their activities , still they had a moment to introduce themselves to me with an excited mood . Ellisa told me that there are four other employees from Eritrea working for Travis Foundation ; Tigrinya group . I was also going to work with these guys to translate corpses from English to Tigrinya and also the other way round . Seeing Tigrinya , my mother tongue receiving attention from Travis Foundation , filled me with pride and excitement .
To further enrich my knowledge about the objectives of the foundation , I searched the official website of Travis Foundation . The core objective of the Foundation , as explained on the website , focuses on digitizing lesser resource languages via compiling digital language corpora and applying learning technology . This very much corresponds with my skills and studies . Thus , it was no brainer that my role would be essential to the cause of the foundation . I whispered , “Ummm . .The foundation seems to  have a pragmatic and down to earth business objectives .” Moreover , I found working at Travis as an ideal platform to garner extra experience in the domains of language and translation .
In this era , one of the biggest global challenges has the mass extinction of languages . Subsequently , the rich values and traditions embedded in them became obsolete .  A lot of efforts have been undertaken to save smaller languages from death . These efforts included , recording and documentation of corpora from written and oral sources . The efforts of Travis Foundation to digitize smaller languages , like Tigrinya is no doubt , complementary to these efforts .  Various texts written in Tigrinya are being translated in to English or English texts are being translated in to Tigrinya and made available digitally , parallel to each other . I suppose , a lot of parties could benefit from this project . Tourists , researchers , investors and other individuals who need language assistance wherever they go , the Travis products are optimal and efficient to use . The digitized corpses also help refugees with poor English language fluency with translation . To put it in a nut shell , the role of the Travis Foundation in reducing inequality on the one hand ; and creating an opportunity for translation is commendable .
There is a commonly used metaphor that says , ‘the last is reserved for the best’ . My biggest satisfaction as a Travis employee is , witnessing a healthy corporate culture . It seems to me that the Travis Foundation has championed in maintaining a healthy relationship and communication between the management of the Foundation and the employee ; as well as the employee within themselves . There is virtually vague frontier of formality there . In other words , orders and instructions are transmitted in a friendly manner . A motivating smile usually accompanies the instructions to be executed . Quite often , we exchange funny remarks and banters that make us feel like a family . A periodic team catch-up has a significant role in assessing the progress of various activities and the people responsible for the execution of the activities . Honestly , this team catch-up is a vital impetus for me . Via this team catch-up , I get motivated as well as learn a lot of new ways of work . In addition to this , eating lunch together in one of the cafes inside or at the roof of the building is a glorious opportunity for professional and personal communication of the employees .
For someone who has the wish to work in an international environment ; Travis the ideal place to experience . The company is a platform where professionals coming from different parts of the world apply their expertise and knowledge . As a person , it is not my first experience to be in a such multinational environment . I have already met with people from different countries . However , at Travis , many colleagues are from countries whose nationals I have never met before . Working with professionals from Portugal , Australia , Mexico , Latvia , Sweden and others epitomize Travis is as the world in miniature .  One can also say it is a prototypal of unity in diversity . This phenomenon made me feel like I have spent only few days ,  even though I had been at Travis for almost two months .
By and large , Travis had been of immense cause to the expansion of my learning curve , experience and professionalism . With the help of fellow professionals and the opportunity I already got , I will maximize my efforts towards achieving the goals of the Foundation . Seeing the pocket sized translation machines , ‘Travis the translator’ with more than 80 languages ; I would be excited to see Tigrinya also added as one these languages .  I have a strong conviction that eventually , Tigrinya will be programmed to fit the system and many other end-user solutions . As a result , people will no more be bothered in expressing their ideas and in communicating with Tigrinya speakers . The long term impact of digitizing Tigrinya , in assisting investors and tourists in Eritrea and parts of Ethiopia will be great .
Amanuel Mehari Gebregziabher
2018 , Rotterdam
Welcome to the Digitising Tigrinya team !
Thanks for your interest , here's what you can do to help create an English and Tigrinya translation .
Thanks for your interest in becoming a Tigrinya volunteer .
My name is Yonas and I will be your contact person for volunteering .
In this email , I will tell you a little more about our plan and what the next steps are for you to contribute .
Travis Foundation is working to create neural machine translation for English and Tigrinya .
This involves using a large data set of matching English and Tigrinya text , training a machine learning algorithm and creating an engine .
The data set is where we need the help of our Tigrinya speaking community .
Soon you will see an invitation for Transifex , this is the platform that we use for translating .
If you don't see the email soon , please look in your spam folder or let me know .
Please enjoy this video below , where Nahom will explain how Transifex works .
You can also download our instruction booklet (in Tigrinya) here .
Each sentence that you translate will be added to our language corpus , contributing to digitising Tigrinya .
To stay up to date with our progress , goals and news , we'd love you to join our Tigrinya Digitising Facebook Group .
If you have any questions , please contact me at yonas@travis .foundation in either English or Tigrinya .
I will be in touch soon to see how you are going .
Otherwise we are very happy that you'll be contributing to our translation , something that will help Tigrinya speakers all over the world .
Thank you from the whole team , Yonas .
 Hello !
I am Elissa . I am from Western Australia but I live in the Netherlands now . I don’t speak Tigrinya (yet) but I do work for Travis Foundation . Travis Foundation exists because when Travis (the company) started selling their translation devices , doctors , police , municipalities and social workers all asked us if Tigrinya was available on the device . Sadly , Travis couldn’t add Tigrinya as it isn’t digitised .
When they looked into language digitisation , there were also 6000 other languages that weren’t digitised so started Travis Foundation to change this . Tigrinya is our first project and when we prove our concept with Tigrinya there’s plenty of other languages in the pipeline .
But language digitisation is not an easy task ! We need a lot of text in both Tigrinya and English . There is plenty of this material available in other languages , that’s why Chinese and Spanish , for example , have been digitised . Tigrinya works a little different in that we have to create the data that the machine learning algorithms will use to understand the language .
We’re currently looking for volunteers to help us with translation to help speed up the process . Every translation helps so if you understand both English and are a native Tigrinya speaker (and able to write in Ge’ez) then we’d love your help !
Please send an email to elissa@travis .foundation and include :
-your name
-where you live (country and city)
-your background and education
-your level of English (even if it’s basic that’s ok)
 Summary 
Weather is the day-to-day or hour-to-hour change in the atmosphere .
Weather includes wind , lightning , storms , hurricanes , tornadoes , rain , hail , snow , and lots more .
Energy from the Sun affects the weather .
Climate tells us what kinds of weather usually happen in an area at different times of the year .
Changes in weather can affect our mood and life .
We wear different clothes and do different things in different weather conditions .
We choose different foods in different seasons , like ice cream in the summer ,nut and berries in autumn or hot chocolate in the winter .
Weather stations around the world measure different parts of weather .
Ways to measure weather are wind speed , wind direction , temperature , barometric pressure , and humidity .
People try to use these measurements to make weather forecasts for the future .
These people are  scientists that are called meteorologists .
They use computers to build large mathematical models to follow weather trends .
Bad weather can hurt people and their property .
It can also just be a bother .
Some examples of bad weather are :
Tropical cyclones
Rainstorms
Drought
Heat waves
Frost
Fog
Tornadoes
 Causes of weather 
Weather happens because different parts of the Earth get different amounts of heat from the Sun .
This makes different climates .
The tropics get the most heat because the Sun shines straight down on them , while the poles get the least heat because the Sun shines on them from a low angle .
Warmer air is lighter than cooler air and rises higher in the sky by convection .
The air always has some water mixed with it .
This is called humidity .
When it cools , the water can change from a gas to a liquid through condensation .
Then the water can fall from the sky as rain or snow .
After the air rises , it gets colder and goes back towards the ground .
Because the air lost its water before , it is dry when it comes back to the ground .
Wind is made when two areas of air of different temperatures meet .
This is called a warm front or cold front .
The hot air is forced to rise over the cold causing condensation which forms rain .
The ways that the air moves around the Earth are called atmospheric circulation .
cool !
Why ?
Where ?
Integrate through chatting , lunches , dinners , events and activities .
Sign in with Facebook
We never post anything on Facebook
By creating an account you accept Welcome App’s terms of agreement
simple as this .
You’ll get some simple questions that create great value . Easy for you , helpful for someone else .
simple questions answered
Make someone feel more at home , say Hi today !
Get started
Already a member ? Log in
Sign up
Something went wrong while logging you in , please try again . If the error persists please contact us .
No account yet
You don't have any account yet . Please create one and accept our privacy policy and terms of service .
Hello people ! We (also) have some new policies to accept .
Something went wrong while accepting the terms of service , please try again . If the error persists please contact us .
Click here if you didn't receive the verification email
Something went wrong while sending the verification email , please try again . If the error persists please contact us .
Something went wrong while verifying your code , please try again . If the error persists please contact us .
Forgot your password ?
Password forgotten
update password
Something went wrong while updating your password , please try again . If the error persists please contact us .
Verify your request
An email has been sent to you with a code to verify your request . Please enter the code below .
This code is invalid . Please verify if the code is correct .
This code has expired .
Send a new one
We could not find this email address . Please enter a valid one .
send verification email
Register with email
create account
Email
Password
New password
Repeat password
Full name
Verify your email address !
Go to your email inbox and click the link to verify your e-mail
Your email has been verified !
Failed to verify your email .
Privacy policy and terms of service
I have read and agree to the privacy policy and terms of service
Continue with Facebook
Sign up with email
Something went wrong while signing you in , please try again . If the error persists please contact us .
Hi $1 , so happy you’re here ! To make your experience perfect , we’ll match you with people relevant to you . To start , just answer a  few questions !
let’s get started !
Welcome back $1 ! In this new version , we’ll offer a more relevant experience by matching you with people you prefer . To start , just answer a  few questions !
Location
If you’re going to match with people nearby , we need to know where you are .
open settings > Privacy > Location services and switch it on for Welcome .
We will match you with people nearby . Therefore we need to know where you are .
we need your location
allow
open settings > Location >   When app is active
open settings > Permissions > Location
If you want to know when someone answers , allow Welcome to send you notifications .
allow
what country are you in ?
The app is only available in these countries at the moment
basically forever
A short period of time
My whole life (practically)
When did you arrive in Sweden ?
When did you arrive in Sweden ?
When did you arrive in Norway ?
When did you arrive in the Netherlands ?
No , I’m new in Sweden
No , I’m new in Sweden
No , I’m new in Norway
No , I’m new in the Netherlands
what kind of questions do you prefer ?
pick at least 3
what do you work with ?
*We might find someone like you
Occupation
I'd prefer people who are
*Choose preferences , or skip and go ahead !
Same gender as me
Around my age
In my area
ok , let's go !
If you’re going to match with people nearby , we need to know where you are .
open settings
Answer a question to welcome someone . We call it a handshake !
is that right ?
We ask about these things to make Welcome personal and a place of welcoming .
more about you !
to be matched on
add profile picture
what matters to you ?
*In order to match you with the most relevant locals , let us know what you think is important
Ask me about
Ask me about
ex . “how to do a good interview”
ex . “what it is like to be new in Sweden”
write in swedish or english
write in swedish or english
write in norwegian or english
write in dutch or english
add subject
add subjects
*Show others what you can be asked about and what you want to learn more about !
We believe everyone has something to share , and something to learn , from another . Show others what you can be asked about and what you want to learn more about !
see more on $1’s profile
I want to know more about
I want to know more about
ex . “what surprised you the most about Sweden”
ex . “what surprised you the most about Sweden”
ex . “what surprised you the most about Norway”
ex . “what surprised you the most about the Netherlands”
ex . “how the industry of construction works in Sweden”
ex . “how the industry of construction works in Sweden”
ex . “how the industry of construction works in Norway”
ex . “how the industry of construction works in the Netherlands”
we match you with people on . . .
no matches , (yet) .
There aren’t any $1 users your age . Would this be OK instead ?
Only same gender as me
People around my age
People in my area
go for it !
No thanks
no matches , (yet) .
There aren’t any $1 nearby . Would this be OK instead ?
Only same gender as me
People around my age
People in my area
go for it !
No thanks
no matches , (yet) .
There aren’t any $female users currently . Would this be OK instead ?
Only same gender as me
People around my age
People in my area
go for it !
No thanks
Bummer ! There are no questions for you to answer at the moment .
tell me when there are
Looking for questions . . .
words of praise
There are currently no $1 users . Would this be OK instead ?
There aren't any $1 users your age . Would this be OK instead ?
There aren't any $1 users nearby . Would this be OK instead ?
There are no users that match your preferences . Would this be OK instead ?
go for it
No thanks
no matches , (yet)
Only same gender as me
People around my age
People in my area
Bummer !
There are no questions with your preferences to answer at the moment .
see questions anyway
If you want to know when there are questions , allow us to send you notifications .
allow
Likes $1 like you
profile
You match on
skip question
$1 mutual interests
$1 handshakes
$1 mutual friends
answer question
expires $1
We're so sorry ! The server is down at the moment . Don't loose your hope in us , try again soon .
We're so sorry ! Too few questions at the moment . Don't loose your hope in us , try again soon .
We're so sorry ! Our server didn't make it . Don't loose your hope in us , try again soon .
We're so sorry ! The server is down at the moment . Don't loose your hope in us , try again soon .
First you will have to answer some simple questions so that we can match you with people like yourself
Hi ! Are you ready to answer some questions asked by new people here ?
give me some
See more about $1 here
$1 events
1 event
No upcoming events
events
my events
events I added
hosting
events I'm going to
see fb-event
only in Welcome
No events available .
Try adjusting the filters above
You haven’t added any events yet . You can add an event to Welcome
anywhere
near me
We need your permission to determine your location
Add fb-event to Welcome
By doing so you will help many other people to find these events and activities
You have no events on Facebook that you can add to Welcome . First create or attend an event on Facebook , then add it here
$1 has no events on Facebook that you can add to Welcome . First create an event on Facebook , then add it here
create fb event
facebook events
To FB event
At the moment you can only add facebook events to Welcome . Therefore we need access to your facebook events .
already on Welcome
event must be public
event must have a location
add event
I'm going
join event
Approved , showing to the people
Rejected in review
Waiting for review
things to adjust
delete event
submit for review
add categories
write a short description . . .
use facebook description
Only women
Specific age group
Only newcomers
Born between
save changes
Deleting this event will remove it from Welcome
No , keep
Yes , delete
delete event
Notice ! We will check the event before it’s published .
This means that we will show the event for female users only
When you select a specific age group we will only show the event to users within that age span
This means that we only will show the event for newly arrived users
Invalid location
The event does not have a valid address . Update the event on Facebook and try again .
We always review the events before they get published to ensure good content in Welcome App .
The event will be canceled and removed and no one will be able to join it . Your guests will be informed .
Reviewing events
We review all events to ensure they are relevant to our users .
We approve events that are :
Free of charge Relevant for the target group️
Thank you for respecting the guidelines ❤
Join event on Facebook ?
This is a Facebook event . Maybe you would like to join it there as well .
Create event
Edit event
Event details
Name . . .
Description . . .
Start time
End time
Address . . .
Select host
Add event picture
Who can come ?
Limited number of guests
Number of guests
Between age
When an event is full , new users will not be able to join it .
Import Facebook event
remove event
$1 view , $2 attendee
$1 views , $2 attendee
$1 view , $2 attendees
$1 views , $2 attendees
No attendees yet .
schedule
You have not joined any event yet .
street
street address
city
area
area
area
county
county
postal code
country
establishment
natural area
transit station
To be able to switch account we need access to your facebook pages .
what account do you want to use ?
facebook pages
Welcomes's vision
Welcome will be the go-to place for newcomers to access opportunities from all parts of their new society - individuals , organisations , companies (jobs) .
Features this autumn
Advertise specific events or activities to certain target groups . E .g . newly arrived women between 20-25 years old that lives in Stockholm and wants to work with law
Send push notifications to your target group for marketing and reminders .
We will provide with statistics of your events . Such as how many people have viewed , clicked , joined through Welcome , and also how many actually came . This might help you build insight about how to improve your event/activity .
You will be able to add recurring events through Welcome (something that doesn’t work through Facebook)
Communicate directly with the target group through chat from your desktop or smartphone . All communication in one place .
At the moment we don’t have much to show you here . But soon enough there will pop up some good to have statistics over your engagement .
words of praise
people about people .
$1 about $2
done
Below you can read some of the words the users of Welcome App have written about each other
Write an encouraging word , so others can see how awesome this person is ! Such as “Kamal is really easy going . Had a great time chatting and learned several new arabic words” It will be shown on the person’s profile !
Load more
soon published .
We just have to make sure it’s a good one first .
okay
Tell others what is good about $1 . It will help open up opportunities for $2 .
Tell others what is good about $1 . It will help others to trust $2 .
Write an endorsement . . .
Why endorsements ?
An endorsement is a text on someones profile that should be positive and tell something about him/her . It will later work as a reference for others to get a better understanding about who the person is . It might be shown to other users , organisations , recruiters and more .
We approve endorsements that are :
Using the persons name (ex . Adam is . . .) Positive and uplifting Helpful for others to rea
Endorsements we will not approve :
Using the word YOU  Negative in any respect    Thank you for respecting the guidelines ❤️
If you want to write something to the person directly , use the chat instead :)
Liked $1 ?
give endorsement
skip
Let others know how awesome $1 has been ! Write an endorsement that will be shown on his profile .
Give me some guidance !
guidance
Questions for you
Based on the selected categories , we have chosen questions we think you can answer . Some might be easier , some trickier . You’re not expected to be an expert in any way , just human .
Start a conversation !
The questions are not a dead end , but see them as conversation starters . You both might learn a bunch of new stuff .
High-five yourself
Even if it can seem like a small thing to chat a bit to get to know each other , we have heard that a personal connection matters a lot when you’re new . So keep calm , chat on and just be you !
We could not connect you to your organization .
The link you used seems to be invalid .
Something went wrong . Please try again later .
You are now part of the organization $1
You are now part of the organization $1 . Which also means that you will be part of welcoming new people in this country together with your colleagues , and also get the features you need for that .
engaged companies
companies
total engagement
people in touch with $1
hosted events
upcoming events
event attendees
lunches / dinners
engaged employees
only visible for $1 employees
no people connected yet
handshakes
people met
About $1
website
What are companies doing here ?
company
Congrats on your first handshake !
Your answer to $1 is going to help heaps !
awesome !
Spread the love !
Invite your friendliest friends and give more people the chance to be welcomed .
invite friends
Yeaaah !
If you want to know when someone answers , allow us to send you notifications .
allow
Liked $1 ?
Write a word of praise to let others know how awesome $1 is !
give words of praise
How cool are you ? Answering all questions just like that ! Like a breeze in the wind .
Awesome ! Answering $1 out of $2 is grrreat ! Like a machine ! 💪
Good ! You answered $1 out of $2 questions . Keep it up !
What happened ? You didn't answer any questions 💔 . Try another five !
give me five more
Skip this question ?
When you skip this question it can still be shown to other users that might be able to answer it .
Skip
My $1 handshakes
no handshakes
My first handshake
$1 friends using welcome
invite some friends
Join me in welcoming people to Sweden through Welcome App !
Join me in welcoming people to Sweden through Welcome App !
Join me in welcoming people to Norway through Welcome App !
Join me in welcoming people to the Netherlands through Welcome App !
edit
cancel
save
Lives in
From
Languages
Occupation
Dream occupation
edit interests
Previous occupation
Other Languages
Write something about yourself . . .
Birthday
Gender
settings
Matching
Your new preferences will be taken into account in your next batch of questions
Same gender as me
People around my age
People in my area
Language
Blocked users
None
Invite
Involve your company
Give feedback
Log out
You have no blocked users
unblock
Policy
Write here . . .
Hi , $1
this is an issue
Switch account
Contact request/week
number of contact requests you can receive
Not available
Contact request
number of contact requests you can receive
First choose a category in which you would like to ask your question
Then write your own question or use a suggestion
You can change the orange words to your own
When you send your question we match you with relevant people
Several people will get your question . For them it looks like this !
They choose to answer the question and you get a handshake ! Now you can chat .
Ask more questions and get a contact . By building your social network , new opportunities open !
Welcome App connects newly arrived immigrants with locals . We’ll match you by career , location , and more .
Someone asks a question about their new environment , and a local person answers . Now you can chat .
Organisations and companies can reach new people by adding their activities to the app .
Members of companies can improve integration together in a simple way . They do this by chatting , meeting up , and arranging activities .
No , I want to connect with newly arrived people
beginner
conversational
fluent
select your interests
work and education
* This will help us match you with the right people
Current occupation
Previous occupation
Dream occupation
Education
let’s start .
It starts with a simple question . Then we match you with relevant people based on occupation , interests , friends , location and more .
ask a question
like this .
How does it work ?
For locals , it looks like this .
$1 mutual friends
We will review the questions you write .
I'll do it later
We will review your endorsement .
I want to ask locals about …
Choose something relevant for you
see answer
Delete question
Our suggestion
no thanks
use suggestion
Tips from Welcome App
Or use one of these suggestions
and change the orange words
Write in $1
Tip ! Change the orange words if something else suits you better .
Send
$1 is not permitted in this question
Let us know what other questions you would like to ask about $1
Write a question
Write a question . . .
Note
The question seems to miss a question mark . We suggest you add one .
Send anyway
Edit
To be able to match you with people nearby , we need to know where you are .
choose Settings > Privacy > Location services and switch it on for Welcome .
open settings
Want to see when your question has ben answered ? Allow us to send push notifications .
choose Settings > Notifications > Switch it on for Welcome .
open settings
nice !
You just asked a question ! As soon as someone answers , it’s a handshake .
awesome !
my questions
Waiting for answers
$1 locals answered
No answer , try a new question !
No active cards just yet
Request new cards
Waiting for review
Approved , waiting for answers
Rejected in review
Asking a simple question is a great way to start a conversation , but it could also be the start of a great new friendship .
ask a question and chat
90% of all the contacts that we are creating between newcomers and Swedes are started by asking a question .
90% of all the contacts that we are creating between newcomers and Swedes are started by asking a question .
90% of all the contacts that we are creating between newcomers and Norwegians are started by asking a question .
90% of all the contacts that we are creating between newcomers and Dutch people are started by asking a question .
Anna , 34 Bank
Johan , 32 Football club
Erik , 29 IT company
Ask us a question ! It is the best way to get in contact with Swedish people !
Ask us a question ! It is the best way to get in contact with Swedish people !
Ask us a question ! It is the best way to get in contact with Norwegian people !
Ask us a question ! It is the best way to get in contact with Dutch people !
outdated questions
words of praise
$1 about $2
people answered
see answer
I got this question on Welcome App . Do you have any suggestions for an answer ?
why review questions ?
We review all questions to ensure locals will be able to answer them .
We approve questions that are :
Within the chosen category To the point and precise Not too long , not too short
Questions we will not approve :
Asking for a friend (too big/vague) Asking for girlfriend (not appropriate) Asking about a job (too hard to answer)
Thank you for respecting the guidelines !
Ps . The suggestions are examples of good questions . If you use one of those , your question is automatically approved .
they say they've met you
Confirm you've met
You are handshake contacts
You are friends on Facebook
Pending approval
who have you met with ?
have not met anybody yet
no handshakes yet
sent requests
no sent requests
no received requests
Add contacts by scanning their code !
scan
Great that you have met ! You can now chat with each other in Welcome App .
QR scan error
Failed to scan QR code , please try again
At the moment you can only create contact with locals in the app .
At the moment you can only create contact with newly arrived people in the app .
settings
Language
Blocked users
Invite
Give feedback
Languages
Log out
You have no blocked users
unblock
Policy
this is an issue
edit
cancel
save
Lives in
From
Education
Immigration status
edit interests
what do you do in your free time ?
Write something about yourself to let others know about you . Perhaps you are great at cooking or loves reading ?
Write here . . .
what do you do in your free time ?
Dream occupation
Previous occupation
Current occupation
Language skills
Other Languages :
Write something about yourself . . .
invite some friends
Join me in Welcome App and get answers from locals on your questions !
My $1 handshakes
My first handshake
Lives in
From
Languages
Occupation
$1 handshakes
$1 handshake
$1 mutual friends
give some praise
give words of praise
Interests
Block user
Unblock user
Lives in
From
Other languages
Previous occupation
Current occupation
Dream occupation
Education
$1 mutual friends
$1 handshakes
$1 handshake
what do you do in your free time ?
words of praise
give some praise
give words of praise
$1 about $2
Interests
Block user
Unlock user
Tell us something about yourself . . .
What do you do in your spare time ?
This user has been deleted
Messages
$1's question
You and $1 match on
You match on $1
My question
Send message
Translate $1
You have no conversations yet
Go answer some questions and chat away !
Go ask some questions and chat away !
Person
active
active $1 $2 ago
latest active $1 $2
$1 works at $2
You work at $1
$1 can see that you work on $2
see more
Help ? Chat with us here !
New contact
You and $1 are now contacts
Great ! Have you asked something back ?
Tip ! Say thank you and ask another question within the same topic .
food
sports
games & electronics
health
film , TV & books
music & culture
career & society
family
location
notifications
Retired
Seeking opportunities
Agriculture
Architecture
Banking
Construction
Cleaning
Real estate
Economics
Engineering
Environment
Entertainment
Energy
Fashion & Styling
Finance
Healthcare
Pharmacy
Wholesale
Retail
IT
Education
Hospitality
Restaurant & Catering
Human Resources
Law
Art & Culture
Marketing
Communication
Media
Journalism
Non-profit sector
Research
Government
Mechanics
Transportation & Logistics
Recruitment
Nutrition
Sports
Sales
Music industry
Student
Language
Sports & Health
Culture & Entertainment
Career & Society
Family
Food & Drinks
Other
All categories
Maximum 3
Data , IT & technology
Finance
Teaching & education
Social work
Natural sciences
Computer science
Art
Hotel & restaurant
Law
Healthcare & medicine
Media
Engineer
Agriculture
Construction & architecture
Other
years
year
months
month
weeks
week
days
day
hours
hour
minutes
minute
seconds
second
ago
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Male
Female
Other
him
her
them
he
she
they
English
Swedish
Norwegian
Arabic
Persian
Dutch
No translation
I'm waiting for my permit
I have a residence permit
Sweden
Norway
The Netherlands
Other
endorsement
answer
we met
received
sent
save
regret
see all
suggestions
how does it work ?
Notice
next
previous
edit
delete
clear
here
OK
preview
Are you sure ?
Translate
Translated from
Translated
send
Choose
done
skip
skip this step
don't allow
Cancel
Copy
Copy text
Block user
No translation
handshakes
handshakes made
people met
people $1 met
about
Woops
Something went wrong and we need you to log back in
Read more
Something went wrong
Please try again
you answered
register
log in
or
gender
age
place
select
birthday
go to settings
matches
beta
questions
messages
wave
waves
refresh
$1 more
message
occupation
write here . . .
send waves
ignore
companies
Chat with us !
newly arrived
congrats !
profile
close
dinners
lunches
+$1 friend
+$1 friends
Works in $1
$1 friend
$1 friends
$1 kid
$1 kids
no
yes
maybe
introduction
share
clicks
Follow $1
Following $1
Settings
accept
deny
remove
request
attendees
report
what’s a handshake ?
how to handshake !
let’s make many !
“The handshake is a symbolic currency , with the power to unite . It is a simple gesture that can be more informative to people than a whole host of grand speeches” according to social science .
In Welcome App , the questions symbolize people reaching out their hand . When someone answers , a connection is established - and the two meet in an awesome handshake !
With many handshakes we’ll make our society more welcoming . Answer a question today !
why suggested questions ?
We want to help you make successful connections . These suggested questions are great conversation starters with locals .
Why use suggestions ?
personalize them 👌
Replace the words in orange to better suit your question . For example , instead of XBox , you can say computer ! Be creative and have fun ! Our suggestion + your changes = your own question !
No internet connection
Chat connecting . . .
Network error
The app is active in Sweden
The app is active in Sweden
The app is active in Norway
The app is active in the Netherlands
how long have you lived in Sweden ?
how long have you lived in Sweden ?
how long have you lived in Norway ?
how long have you lived in the Netherlands ?
So you want to get in contact with newly arrived people ?
The app is active in Sweden
The app is active in Sweden
The app is active in Norway
The app is active in the Netherlands
So you want to get in contact with Swedish people ?
So you want to get in contact with Swedish people ?
So you want to get in contact with Norwegian people ?
So you want to get in contact with Dutch people ?
In Sweden since
In Sweden since
In Norway since
In the Netherlands since
Been in Sweden for
Been in Sweden for
Been in Norway for
Been in the Netherlands for
Swedish level
Swedish level
Norwegian level
Dutch level
what is your level of Swedish ?
what is your level of Swedish ?
what is your level of Norwegian ?
what is your level of Dutch ?
swedish culture
swedish culture
norwegian culture
dutch culture
e .g .
Wave to $1 ! 👋
Write why you would like to connect with $1 . If he finds it interesting , he will accept your contact request and write back to you .
Write why you would like to connect with $1 . If she finds it interesting , she will accept your contact request and write back to you .
Write why you would like to connect with $1 . If they find it interesting , they will accept your contact request and write back to you .
Write why you want contact . . .
waiting for answer . . .
You can only send one wave message , so now you have to wait for an answer
You sent a wave to $1
$1 waves to you
ignore contact
Wave back and handshake ! 🤝
By answering $1's message , you wave back , accept chatting and create a handshake .
Needs to be minimum $1 characters
You made a handshake
Does your message explain well enough why you want contact ? What you are good at , what you are interested in etc . If not , edit your message before you send to increase your chances to get an answer !
Don't show again
Edit message
Today you can send new waves ! See if you find any interesting people to connect with . 👌
Are you sure you want to ignore the wave from $1 ?
$1 won't be able to wave to you again
Here you get contact requests that we call waves . You can always change your availability in your settings . Check out how to send waves yourself !
You have not received any waves yet
With this new feature you can send a message to one new contact per day . We have matched them with you !
Connect
your best matches
refresh
You ran out of matches !
you match
$1 $2 to spend today
Sorry , no users match your preferences ! Try to change them and refresh .
Daily wave spent . Check back tomorrow !
works at $1
We are sorry , something has gone wrong on our side . Please try again later .
Invalid $1
Your password needs to be at least eight characters long .
Your name needs to be at least two characters long .
Email is already in use . Please log in or choose another email address .
Invalid password or email .
Failed to send
We couldn't send your message . Please try again
With this new feature you can send a message to one new contact per day . We have matched them with you !
With this new feature you can send messages to newcomers . We have matched them with you !
occupation
location
Now companies are starting to use Welcome App to get in contact with you ! 🎉 $1 you can get in contact with people from these companies . New companies are joining every month . Enjoy !
Companies are now using Welcome App to welcome newcomers to their work places . 🎉  Do you want Welcome App at your company ?
By asking questions
wave to people
Submit my interest
Talk with us !
why companies
Companies want contact
Not only newly arrived people want to contact others ! $1 want contact with $2 as well ! 🙂  In a partnership program with Welcome , more employees will be engaged . Send a message or ask a question , and you will receive an answer from an employee !  Stay updated by looking for activities and events that companies are doing on the event tab .
“We look forward to chat , meet up and invite to activities at our workplace .”
- Thomas , employed in Stockholm
agriculture
advertising
banking
beauty
chemical
construction
consulting
education
employment
energy
entertainment
finance
food
government
health
hospitality
insurance
integration
it
manufacturing
management
media
pension
real estate
retail
staffing
telecom
tourism
transportation
water
edit profile
Show translation
Show original text
profile
connect
messages
event
info
feed
Lunches Introduction
Dinners Introduction
Eat lunch and talk with Swedish people !
Eat lunch and talk with Swedish people !
Eat lunch and talk with Norwegian people !
Eat lunch and talk with Dutch people !
Eat dinner and talk with Swedish people !
Eat dinner and talk with Swedish people !
Eat dinner and talk with Norwegian people !
Eat dinner and talk with Dutch people !
Invite for lunch to eat and talk !
Invite for dinner to eat and talk !
A lunch is an easy way for many swedish people to meet . Here you find suggestions on eating lunch from swedish people . Find one to go to , or invite to your own lunch .
A lunch is an easy way for many swedish people to meet . Here you find suggestions on eating lunch from swedish people . Find one to go to , or invite to your own lunch .
A lunch is an easy way for many norwegian people to meet . Here you find suggestions on eating lunch from norwegian people . Find one to go to , or invite to your own lunch .
A lunch is an easy way for many dutch people to meet . Here you find suggestions on eating lunch from dutch people . Find one to go to , or invite to your own lunch .
A dinner is an easy way for many swedish people to meet . Here you find suggestions on eating dinner from swedish people . Find one to go to , or invite to your own dinner .
A dinner is an easy way for many swedish people to meet . Here you find suggestions on eating dinner from swedish people . Find one to go to , or invite to your own dinner .
A dinner is an easy way for many norwegian people to meet . Here you find suggestions on eating dinner from norwegian people . Find one to go to , or invite to your own dinner .
A dinner is an easy way for many dutch people to meet . Here you find suggestions on eating dinner from dutch people . Find one to go to , or invite to your own dinner .
A lunch at a workplace or restaurant is highly appreciated by newly arrived people . To eat and talk about subjects you choose is high value impact .
A dinner at a workplace or restaurant is highly appreciated by newly arrived people . To eat and talk about subjects you choose is high value impact .
The lunch process
The dinner process
go to lunch
go to dinner
invite for lunch
invite for dinner
Any questions ? Talk with us !
find lunch
new lunch
find dinner
new dinner
Find a lunch to go to
The host accepts your request
Chat before meeting
Have the lunch
Find a dinner to go to
Have the dinner
You can find available lunches with swedish people that suites you and request to join .
You can find available lunches with swedish people that suites you and request to join .
You can find available lunches with norwegian people that suites you and request to join .
You can find available lunches with dutch people that suites you and request to join .
You can find available lunches with newly arrived that suites you and request to join .
The host then will confirm that it still works to meet up for lunch .
If you have questions to the host , you can always chat before meeting up .
You can find available dinners with swedish people that suites you and request to join .
You can find available dinners with swedish people that suites you and request to join .
You can find available dinners with norwegian people that suites you and request to join .
You can find available dinners with dutch people that suites you and request to join .
You can find available dinners with newly arrived that suites you and request to join .
The host then will confirm that it still works to meet up for dinner .
Add lunch and get requests
You accept the guest
Add dinner and get requests
Add lunch with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Swedish people will request to join your lunch .
Add lunch with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Swedish people will request to join your lunch .
Add lunch with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Norwegian people will request to join your lunch .
Add lunch with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Dutch people will request to join your lunch .
Add lunch with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Newly arrived user will request to join your lunch .
Add lunch with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Newly arrived user will request to join your lunch .
Add lunch with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Newly arrived user will request to join your lunch .
Add lunch with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Newly arrived user will request to join your lunch .
You will have to accept the lunch request , which confirms that you are meeting up .
If you have questions or information to the guest , you can always chat before meeting up .
Add dinner with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Swedish people will request to join your dinner .
Add dinner with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Swedish people will request to join your dinner .
Add dinner with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Norwegian people will request to join your dinner .
Add dinner with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Dutch people will request to join your dinner .
Add dinner with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Newly arrived user will request to join your dinner .
Add dinner with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Newly arrived user will request to join your dinner .
Add dinner with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Newly arrived user will request to join your dinner .
Add dinner with the time and place you can meet and choose among other preferences . Newly arrived user will request to join your dinner .
You will have to accept the dinner request , which confirms that you are meeting up .
Here you will find available $1 that you can book to meet people . Right now all are booked , but new $2 are being added all the time . Check back again soon !   🍽 👍
Donate your network
Get professional contacts
Donate your network to create jobs
Grow your professional network
Welcome matches a job seeking newcomer to a local professional based on sector and location . During 3 months you will search for relevant contacts within your professional network , looks at the newcomer’s CV and together you will prepare network meetings . This way , the newcomer will expand their own network and increases the chance of finding a sustainable job .  Would you like to donate your network and support a newcomer in finding a sustainable job or internship ?
Having a professional network is crucial in finding a suitable job in the Netherlands .  Welcome matches newcomers who are seeking for a job with a Dutch professional with a broad suitable network in that specific sector and city (a network donor) . If we find a good match a three month long program starts . The network donor will find the right connections for you to talk to . This will increase your own professional network and your chances on finding a suitable job !  Are you looking for a full time job or internship and do you have B1 level of Dutch or are fluent in English ?
start here !
apply here !
The process
Fill in the form
We will call you
Meet up
Register by filling in information about you and your work experience .
We will call you when we find a good match . Meet with the Participant and discuss ambitions , experience and dreams for the future . Then search for relevant contacts within your network and arrange coffee meetings , company visits , internships and job interviews !
The Participant meets with your contacts , visits companies and goes to interviews . Together you expand the network of the Participant and work towards a sustainable job .
Register by filling in information about you and your work experience .
We will call you when we find a good match . Meet with the Participant and discuss ambitions , experience and dreams for the future . Then search for relevant contacts within your network and arrange coffee meetings , company visits , internships and job interviews !
The Participant meets with your contacts , visits companies and goes to interviews . Together you expand the network of the Participant and work towards a sustainable job .
Form
What field are you working in today ?
In what other fields do you have contacts ?
In what areas do you need contacts ?
+ Add another field
Tell us more about you
Phone number
(+31) Enter your phone here
This is only for internal use . We never publish your phone number on any platform .
Years of working experience
Years worked
Are you looking for full time job/internship ?
What is your level of Dutch ?
In what sector would you like to work ?
Work experience
Work experience in the Netherlands
Sent !
We will call you when we find a match
Ok , I got it !
You have signed up . We will call you when we find a match !
Due to high demand we have temporarily disabled new signups . Check back again soon !
What do you want to do with swedish people ?
What do you want to do with swedish people ?
What do you want to do with norwegian people ?
What do you want to do with dutch people ?
What do you want to do ?
What do you want to do ?
What do you want to do ?
What do you want to do ?
explore
in the app
Lunch
Lunch
Dinner
Dinner
Ask questions
Answer questions
Events and activities
Events and activities
Companies for integration
Developer playground
Get new professional contacts
Donate your network
new lunch
new dinner
$1 invites for lunch
$1 invite for lunch
$1 invites for dinner
$1 invite for dinner
You can't bring friends
$1 friend can come
$1 friends can come
$1 kid can come
$1 kids can come
$1 pays
You pay for yourself
Bring your own food
read more
+ $1 time to choose from
+ $1 times to choose from
show newcomers' invitations
show locals' invitations
lunch
dinner
adults
adult
kid
kids
friends
friends
guests
none
Create lunch
Create dinner
Edit lunch
Edit dinner
Unfortunately it seems something wrong happened on our side , try again later .
Unfortunately it seems you don't have the right to modify this lunch .
Fantastic that you want to invite for lunch ! You can do it by yourself or together with your colleagues . Let me know if you have any questions 🙂
Fantastic that you want to invite for dinner ! Just fill in your preferences and we match you automatically with the right people . Write to me if you have questions 🙂
Omar Al Zankah , Welcome App
Pepijn Middeldorp , Welcome App
Omar Al Zankah , Welcome App
Omar Al Zankah , Welcome App
Lina , Invitationsdepartementet
What times would work for you ?
choose several times , preferably a week in advance
+ Add a time
Where do you want to meet
Address . . .
We are not showing the address until the guest is confirmed
I will host this $1 alone
I will host this $1 with others
Number of people you bring
Number of adults you bring
Number of kids you bring
Who are you inviting ?
Number of adults
Number of persons
Number of kids
Who pays ?
I will pay
You pay for yourself
Bring your own food
Message
Write an invitation message here . . .
Increase chance to have a guest
The time suggestions are within this week . Increase your chance by adding several times , and preferably a week in advance .
Change times
Use times
Invalid address , you need to select an exact address with city , street name and number .
Published !
Next step
Wait for requests
follow process on your profile
Request lunch
Request dinner
Great that you would like to meet $1 ! $2 would need to know what time suites you and if you bring any friends .
$1 and his friends
Choose a time that suites you !
I will come alone
I want to bring some friends
I want to bring other people
How many $1 ?
How many kids ?
No kids can come to this $1
No additional $1 can come to this $2
Write a message to the host here . . .
Maximum $1 $2 for this $3
You cannot bring any friends to this $2
You own pets ?
cat
dog
other
$1 owns a cat
$1 owns a dog
$1 owns a pet
$1 owns no pets
You own a cat
You own a dog
You own a pet
You own no pets
View $1 on profile page
Request sent !
Wait for confirmation by the host
$1 friend to $2 will also join the lunch .
$1 friends to $2 will also join the lunch .
$1 friend to $2 will also join the dinner .
$1 friends to $2 will also join the dinner .
Can friends come ?
Can kids come ?
Any pets ?
Time $1 can meet you
Times $1 can meet you
You will see the exact adress when you have booked the lunch
No time is available anymore
book lunch
book dinner
$1 works at this company
$1 works at these companies
Unfortunately this lunch is no longer accessible . . .
$1 is guest
The host has a cat in his home .
The host has a dog in his home .
The host has an animal in his home .
The host has no animals in his home .
At the lunch $1 pays for you both .
At the lunch , you pay for your food , and the host pays for his food .
At the lunch , you both bring your own food .
This means that you can't bring any friend to this lunch .
This means that you can't bring any friend to this dinner .
This means that you can bring $1 friend to this lunch .
This means that you can bring $1 friend to this dinner .
This means that you can bring $1 friends to this lunch .
This means that you can bring $1 friends to this dinner .
This means that you can't bring any kid to this dinner .
This means that you can bring $1 kid to this dinner .
This means that you can bring $1 kids to this dinner .
You're having $1 together !
Your dinner
Your lunch
Your dinner with $1
Your lunch with $1
You had lunch
You had dinner
Dinner with $1
Lunch with $1
(in process)
(no guest)
(canceled)
next step
Waiting for dinner requests
Waiting for lunch requests
Have dinner with $1
Have lunch with $1
This lunch has been canceled
This dinner has been canceled
You come alone
$1 comes alone
$1 requests to join your lunch
$1 requests to join your dinner
Waiting for $1 to accept your request
$1 requested to join your lunch
$1 denied your request
$1 didn't answer your request in time
You didn't answer the request from $1 in time
find a new lunch
find a new dinner
find available lunches
find available dinners
$1 brings $2 adult
$1 brings $2 adults
$1 brings $2 kid
$1 brings $2 kids
$1 brings $2 adult and $3 kid
$1 brings $2 adults and $3 kid
$1 brings $2 adult and $3 kids
$1 brings $2 adults and $3 kids
You bring $1 adult
You bring $1 adults
You bring $1 kid
You bring $1 kids
You bring $1 adult and $2 kid
You bring $1 adults and $2 kid
You bring $1 adult and $2 kids
You bring $1 adults and $2 kids
you pay
chat
Selected time
add new lunch
add new dinner
My lunches and dinners
Lunches and dinners
Feedback
Did you meet ?
Did you meet $1 for a lunch ?
Did you meet $1 for a dinner ?
How was the meeting with $1 ?
Only Welcome will see this , to make the matching better
Your post will be shown in the Welcome feed
good
not good
Write a comment here . . .
Would you like to meet $1 again ?
add picture
change picture
Share on $1
Upload lunch picture
Upload dinner picture
Something went wrong while sending your evaluation , please try again . If the error persists please contact us .
My next lunch
My next dinner
booked
had lunch
had dinner
$1 had lunch with $2
$1 had dinner with $2
lunches/dinners
challenge friends
Challenge 3 friends to have lunch !
Who of your friends would appreciate the experience you just had ? Send your personal link to encourage them to do the same !
Your effect on #10000luncher
follow total lunch statistics on $1
on your link
thanks to you
No lunch in $1
No dinner in $1
Follow $1 to get notified when there are new lunches or dinners available .
Someone booked it before you :(
Turn on notifications
Turn off notifications
Do you want a push notification when new lunches or dinners are available in $1 ?
Do you want to turn off push notifications for available lunches and dinners in $1 ?
You need to enable notification in the iOS app settings
You will have to accept push notifications , to know when your request has been accepted .
You will have to accept push notifications , to be informed when you get a request .
allow notifications
Accept request
When you accept we will connect you with the guest so you can chat before the lunch
When you accept we will connect you with the guest so you can chat before the dinner
Deny request
The guest will be informed and can book other lunches . Your lunch will be available for new guests to book .
The guest will be informed and can book other dinners . Your dinner will be available for new guests to book .
Remove lunch
Remove dinner
The lunch will be removed and no one will be able to book it .
The dinner will be removed and no one will be able to book it .
The guest will be informed .
Deny message (optional)
Cancel message (optional)
Write message to guest here . . .
Your lunch has been canceled
Your dinner has been canceled
$1 canceled your lunch
$1 canceled your dinner
You canceled the lunch
You canceled the dinner
Inform guest
Be aware that we will not inform the guest about your changes . You will have to confirm the changes with the guest in the chat .
Place you will meet
Time you will meet
Lunch request
Dinner request
$1 have requested to join your lunch . Accept on your profile .
$1 have requested to join your dinner . Accept on your profile .
see profile to accept
Report an inappropriate content
You consider that this content is inappropriate and should be removed from WelcomeApp ? By reporting it you will not see this content anymore , we will review and remove it if it goes against our policies and values .
Remove my account
This will permanently remove your account and all your user data in Welcome App !
I want to remove my account
Photo access
To add pictures to your profile , we need you to give access to your photo gallery .
Worry
Worry refers to the thoughts , images , and emotions of a negative nature in a repetitive , uncontrollable manner that results from a proactive cognitive risk analysis made to avoid or solve anticipated potential threats and their potential consequences .Worry is described as a response to a moderate challenge for when the subject has inadequate skills . Worry turns to be problematic if one has been excessively apprehensive more days than not for at least six months .
Introduction
John is from London .
London is in Great Britain .
He speaks English .
Maria is from Madrid .
Madrid is in Spain .
She speaks Spanish .
Peter and Martha are from Berlin .
Berlin is in Germany .
Do both of you speak German ?
London is a capital city .
Madrid and Berlin are also capital cities .
Capital cities are big and noisy .
France is in Europe .
Egypt is in Africa .
Japan is in Asia .
Canada is in North America .
Panama is in Central America .
Brazil is in South America .
I read .
I read a letter .
I read a word .
I read a sentence .
I read a letter .
I read a book .
I read .
You read .
He reads .
I write .
I write a letter .
I write a word .
I write a sentence .
I write a letter .
I write a book .
I write .
You write .
He writes .
I count .
one , two , three .
I count to three .
I count further .
four , five , six .
seven , eight , nine .
You count .
He counts .
I have One bicycle .
The first book is mine .
He has Two cats .
The second person is my brother .
I go to school Three days a week .
The third row is for elderly people .
We have Four pens .
The fourth pen is mine .
I work Five days a week .
The fifth day is Friday .
There are Six students in the class .
The sixth day is Saturday .
A week has Seven days .
The seventh day is Sunday .
He has Eight pencils .
I live in The eighth floor .
I will go for holidays for Nine days .
The ninth floor is free .
These are the seasons .
Spring , summer , autumn and winter .
The summer is warm .
The sun shines in summer .
We like to go for a walk in summer .
The winter is cold .
It snows or rains in winter .
We like to stay home in winter .
It is cold .
It is raining .
It is windy .
It is warm .
It is sunny .
It is pleasant .
What is the weather like today ?
It is cold today .
It is warm today .
Our house is here .
The roof is on top .
The basement is below .
There is a garden behind the house .
There is no street in front of the house .
There are trees next to the house .
My apartment is here .
The kitchen and bathroom are here .
The living room and bedroom are there .
The front door is closed .
But the windows are open .
It is hot today .
We are going to the living room .
There is a sofa and an armchair there .
Please , sit down !
My computer is there .
My stereo is there .
The TV set is brand new .
Today is Saturday .
We have time today .
We are cleaning the apartment today .
I am cleaning the bathroom .
My husband is washing the car .
The children are cleaning the bicycles .
Grandma is watering the flowers .
The children are cleaning up the children's room .
My husband is tidying up his desk .
I am putting the laundry in the washing machine .
I am hanging up the laundry .
I am ironing the clothes .
The windows are dirty .
The floor is dirty .
The dishes are dirty .
Who washes the windows ?
Who does the vacuuming ?
Who does the dishes ?
Do you have a new kitchen ?
What do you want to cook today ?
Do you cook on an electric or a gas stove ?
Shall I cut the onions ?
Shall I peel the potatoes ?
Shall I rinse the lettuce ?
Where are the glasses ?
Where are the dishes ?
Where is the silverware ?
Do you have a can opener ?
Do you have a bottle opener ?
Do you have a corkscrew ?
Are you cooking the soup in this pot ?
Are you frying the fish in this pan ?
Are you grilling the vegetables on this grill ?
I am setting the table .
Here are the knives , the forks and the spoons .
Here are the glasses , the plates and the napkins .
Science from Latin scientia , meaning knowledge is a systematic enterprise that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable explanations and predictions about the universe .
From classical era through the 19th century , science as a type of knowledge was more closely linked to philosophy . In the West , the term natural philosophy encompassed fields of study such as classical physics , astronomy and medicine and was a precursor of modern natural sciences . In the 17th and 18th centuries , scientists increasingly sought to formulate knowledge in terms of laws of nature . Over the centuries , the term science became associated with the scientific method , a systematic way of studying the natural world and particularly in the 19th century , multiple distinguishing characteristics of contemporary modern science began to take shape .
Modern science is typically divided into three major branches that consist of the natural sciences for example biology , chemistry , physics , which study nature in the broadest sense ; the social sciences for example psychology , sociology , economics which study people and societies ; and the formal sciences for example mathematics , logic , theoretical computer science , which study abstract concepts . There is disagreement , however , on the formal sciences being a science as they do not rely on empirical evidence . Disciplines that use science , such as engineering and medicine , are described as applied sciences .
Science is related to research and is commonly organized by academic and research institutions as well as government companies . The practical impacts of scientific research has led to the emergence of science policies that seek to influence the scientific enterprise by prioritizing the development of commercial products , armaments , health care , and environmental protection .
I have white jacket .
He has a white jacket .
She has a white jacket .
They have a white jacket .
He likes the color yellow .
She Likes the color yellow .
I like the color yellow .
They Like the color yellow .
The door is red .
The window is red .
The table is red .
The sky is blue .
Is the sky blue ?
The sky is not blue .
How do you know that the sky is blue ?
He wants a brown cat .
she wants a brown cat .
They want a brown cat .
I want a brown cat .
My mother likes green .
My father likes green .
My sister likes green .
My brother Likes green .
The donkey is grey .
The horse is grey .
The donkey is not grey .
The horse is not grey .
The writting is in orange .
The writting was in orange .
The writting will be in orange .
Pink flowers .
Pink computer .
Pink bird .
Violet dress .
Violet shirt .
Violet gloves .
Violet uniform .
The first month is January .
The second month is February .
The third month is March .
The fourth month is April .
The fifth month is May .
The sixth month is June .
Six months make half a year .
January , February , March ,
April , May and June .
The seventh month is July .
The eighth month is August .
The ninth month is September .
The tenth month is October .
The eleventh month is November .
The twelfth month is December .
Twelve months make a year .
July , August , September ,
October , November and December .
Do the students learn a lot ?
No , they learn a little .
Do you often ask the teacher questions ?
No , I don’t ask him questions often .
Please reply .
I reply .
Is he working right now ?
Yes , he is working right now .
Are you coming ?
Yes , we are coming soon .
Do you live in Berlin ?
Yes , I live in Berlin .
I have a hobby .
I play tennis .
Where is the tennis court ?
Do you have a hobby ?
I play football .
Where is the football field ?
My arm hurts .
My foot and hand also hurt .
Is there a doctor ?
I have a car .
I also have a motorcycle .
Where could I park ?
I have a sweater .
I also have a jacket and a pair of jeans .
Where is the washing machine ?
I have a plate .
I have a knife , a fork and a spoon .
Where is the salt and pepper ?
I don’t understand the word .
I don’t understand the sentence .
I don’t understand the meaning .
Do you understand the teacher ?
Yes , I understand him well .
Do you understand the teacher ?
Yes , I understand her well .
Do you understand the people ?
No , I don’t understand them so well .
Do you have a girlfriend ?
Yes , I do .
Do you have a daughter ?
No , I don’t .
Is the ring expensive ?
No , it costs only one hundred Euros .
But I have only fifty .
Are you finished ?
No , not yet .
But I’ll be finished soon .
Do you want some more soup ?
No , I don’t want anymore .
But another ice cream .
Have you lived here long ?
No , only for a month .
But I already know a lot of people .
Are you driving home tomorrow ?
No , only on the weekend .
But I will be back on Sunday .
Is your daughter an adult ?
No , she is only seventeen .
But she already has a boyfriend .
I can’t find my key .
I can’t find my ticket .
Have you found your key ?
Have you found your ticket ?
Do you know where his key is ?
Do you know where his ticket is ?
Her money is gone .
And her credit card is also gone .
Our grandfather is ill .
Our grandmother is healthy .
Children , where is your father ?
Children , where is your mother ?
He has forgotten his glasses .
Where has he left his glasses ?
His clock isn’t working .
The clock hangs on the wall .
He has lost his passport .
Where is his passport then ?
The children cannot find their parents .
Here come their parents !
How was your trip , Mr . Miller ?
Where is your wife , Mr . Miller ?
How was your trip , Mrs . Smith ?
Where is your husband , Mrs . Smith ?
Excuse me !
What time is it , please ?
Thank you very much .
It is one o'clock .
It is two o'clock .
It is three o'clock .
It is four o'clock .
It is five o'clock .
It is six o'clock .
It is seven o'clock .
It is eight o'clock .
It is nine o'clock .
It is ten o'clock .
It is eleven o'clock .
It is twelve o'clock .
A minute has sixty seconds .
An hour has sixty minutes .
A day has twenty-four hours .
Monday .
Tuesday .
Wednesday .
Thursday .
Friday .
Saturday .
Sunday .
the week .
from Monday to Sunday .
The first day is Monday .
The second day is Tuesday .
The third day is Wednesday .
The fourth day is Thursday .
The fifth day is Friday .
The sixth day is Saturday .
The seventh day is Sunday .
The week has seven days .
We only work for five days .
Yesterday was Saturday .
I was at the cinema yesterday .
The film was interesting .
Today is Sunday .
I'm not working today .
I'm staying at home .
Tomorrow is Monday .
Tomorrow I will work again .
I work at an office .
Who is that ?
That is Peter .
Peter is a student .
Who is that ?
That is Martha .
Martha is a secretary .
Peter and Martha are friends .
Peter is Martha's friend .
Martha is Peter's friend .
January .
February .
March .
April .
May .
June .
These are six months .
January , February , March , April , May and June .
July .
August .
September .
October .
November .
December .
These are also six months .
July , August , September , October , November and December .
Managing Cultural Diversity in the Workplace , Part 2 .
From our increasingly diverse workforce to the globalization of business , cultural competence is possibly the most important skill for effective work performance in the 21st century .
In Part 1 of this article , we explored cultural differences , from communication to teamwork , from perceptions of time to differing cultural calendars .
In part 2 below , we will explore strategies , skills and techniques for managing cultural diversity in the workplace and developing cultural competence .
To develop cultural competence , training should focus on the following ;
1 . Awareness . Cultural Awareness is the skill to understand one apos & ; s reactions to people who are different , and how our behavior might interfere with effective working relationships . We need to learn to overcome stereotypes . We need to see people as individuals and focus on actual behavior , rather than our preconceived and often biased notions .
2 . Attitude . This is the companion skill to awareness . Attitude enables people to examine their values and beliefs about cultural differences , and understand their origins . It is important that to focus on facts , rather than judgment . Also , note that suggesting that some people are more biased and prejudiced than others can quickly sabotage cultural training . The goal is managing cultural diversity in the workplace , and creating effective working relationships – not to make converts .
3 . Knowledge . Social science research indicates that our values and beliefs about equality may be inconsistent with behavior . Ironically , we are often unaware of this . Knowledge about our own behavior – and how it relates to fairness and workforce effectiveness – is an essential skill . It is also essential to be knowledgeable about other cultures , from communication styles to holidays and religious events . The minimum objective is tolerance , which is essential for effective teamwork . Differences are what make tolerance necessary , and tolerance is what makes differences possible .
4 . Skills . The goal of training – in awareness , attitude and knowledge – should be skills that allow organizational leaders and employees to make cultural competence a seamless part of the workplace . As explored in this video on leading culturally diverse teams . The new work environment is defined by understanding , communicating , cooperating , and providing leadership across cultures . Managing cultural diversity in the workplace is also the challenge for organizations that want to profit from a competitive advantage in the 21st century economy .
Healthcare
The quality of healthcare in the Netherlands is good . However , the Dutch healthcare system has specific rules that you must know . On this page , you will find information and an explanation about the compulsory health insurance , the excess , the healthcare benefit , the family doctor , specialist care , and more .
Compulsory health insurance .
In the Netherlands , everyone from 18 years of age is obliged to insure himself or herself against medical expenses . The health insurance pays your visits to the family doctor and part of the medicines and treatments in hospital . How much the insurance company pays and which costs you must pay for yourself depends on two things : your insurance package and your excess . You can choose part of the insurance package yourself : on top of the compulsory basic health insurance , you can take out different supplementary insurance packages . In addition , most insurance policies have an excess that is required by law : this excess is an amount that you must pay yourself every year before you are entitled to payment under your insurance . The excess does not apply to a visit to the family doctor , so this will always be paid for you . Children up to 18 years of age are included in the insurance policy of either of the parents free of charge . The excess does not apply to children .
You can also choose a cheaper health insurance with a higher excess , but this is not wise if you do not have savings . Your counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees can help you to take out health insurance .
In some municipalities , people with a social assistance benefit can take out extended health insurance . The monthly premium you pay for this insurance is higher , but you do not have an excess .
Healthcare benefit .
People with a low income can get a healthcare benefit from the government to pay part of the health insurance . COA will probably have applied for the healthcare benefit for you before you moved to the municipality . If you do not get any healthcare benefit , discuss this with your counsellor as soon as possible .
Family doctor .
If you are having any health problems , you must always first visit the family doctor . This is the case if you are pregnant , if you need medical advice , or if you have psychological problems , such as sleeping problems , anxiety , and lasting symptoms of depression . Only the family doctor can refer you to specialist care , usually in a hospital . To be able to make an appointment with a family doctor , you will first have to register with him or her as a patient . Also ask him or her if your health insurance is valid at this family doctor . If you had a medical intake at a reception centre , you will probably already have a medical record in the Netherlands . Your new family doctor can retrieve this record from the center of asylum seekers doctor .
Dentist .
If you have problems with your teeth , or to prevent these problems , you go to the dentist . You must also first register as a patient with a dentist . The expenses for the dentist are not covered under the basic health insurance . So you must pay for the expenses yourself if you do not have additional dental care insurance . Most dental expenses including semi - annual dental check -ups for children up to 18 years of age are , in principle , covered under the basic health insurance .
I have Bathtub in my home .
He Combs his hair .
She uses Hairbrush to comb her hair .
I like Perfume .
He uses Razor to shave his beard .
I use Shampoo for my hair
A Soap is made of fats .
The house has two Toilets .
I clean my teeth using Toothbrush .
She forgets to buy a Toothpaste .
We use a Towel to dry our hand .
They set their Alarm clock at 7 a .m .
His Bed is big .
They drink 2 liters of Water per day .
The big Clock in the building is old .
Can you turn on the Lamp ?
His Painting is known all over the world .
I like a small Pillow .
The house has a glass Window .
Burn the Candle .
The Chair is made of wood .
The Curtain is made of textile .
I use Fork to eat pasta .
I serve the food In a Plate .
The Spoon is sharp .
The Spoon is golden .
She eats her meal in a Bowl .
I serve the food in a big Dish .
The Dishwasher is expensive .
My Fridge is new .
They drink a Glass of bier .
My Kitchen is small .
I bake the cake in the Oven .
She washes the glasses in the Sink .
I cook my food in a Stove .
Do you have a Toaster ?
I drink a glass of Wine .
He loves antique Art .
When you smoke use Ashtray .
Netherlands is famous with Flowers .
I took a Photograph of the ifle tower
They Plant a mangrove tree .
He enters through the back Door .
I have a leather Sofa .
My dining Table is small .
I have a Samsung Telephone .
Every day I see film in the Television .
I put the flower in a Vase .
Hi !
Hello !
How are you ?
Do you come from Europe ?
Do you come from America ?
Do you come from Asia ?
In which hotel are you staying ?
How long have you been here for ?
How long will you be staying ?
Do you like it here ?
Are you here on vacation ?
Please do visit me sometime !
Here is my address .
Shall we see each other tomorrow ?
I am sorry , but I already have plans .
Bye !
Good bye !
See you soon !
Where are we ?
We are at school .
We are having class / a lesson .
Those are the school children .
That is the teacher .
That is the class .
What are we doing ?
We are learning .
We are learning a language .
I learn English .
You learn Spanish .
He learns German .
We learn French .
You all learn Italian .
They learn Russian .
Learning languages is interesting .
We want to understand people .
We want to speak with people .
Tonsillitis .
What is tonsillitis ?
Tonsils are the two lymph nodes located on each side of the back of your throat .
They function as a defense mechanism to prevent your body from infection .
When the tonsils become infected , the condition is called tonsillitis .
Tonsillitis can occur at any age and is a common childhood infection .
It is most often diagnosed in children from preschool age through their midteens .
Symptoms include a sore throat , swollen tonsils and fever .
This condition is contagious and can be caused by a variety of common viruses and bacteria , such as Streptococcal bacteria .
Tonsillitis caused by Streptococcal bacteria can lead to serious complications if left untreated .
Tonsillitis is easily diagnosed .
Symptoms usually go away within 7 to 10 days .
Causes of tonsillitis
Tonsils are your first line of defense against illness .
They produce white blood cells to help your body fight infection .
The tonsils combat bacteria and viruses that enter your body through your mouth or nose .
However , tonsils are also vulnerable to infection from these invaders .
Tonsillitis can be caused by a virus , such as the common cold , or by a bacterial infection , such as strep throat .
An estimated 15 to 30 percent of tonsillitis cases are due to bacteria and most often it is strep bacteria .
Viruses are the most common cause of tonsillitis .
Children come into close contact with others at school and playground , exposing them to a variety of viruses and bacteria .
This makes them particularly vulnerable to the germs that cause tonsillitis .
Symptoms of tonsillitis .
There are several types of tonsillitis , and there are many possible symptoms .
A very sore throat and difficulty swallowing or painful swallowing .
A scratchy - sounding voice and bad breath .
Fever , chills , earaches , headaches and a stiff neck .
Jaw and neck tenderness due to swollen lymph nodes .
Tonsils that appear red and swollen .
Tonsils that have white or yellow spots .
In very young children , you may also notice increased irritability , poor appetite , or excessive drooling .
There are two types of tonsillitis .
Recurrent tonsillitis : multiple episodes of acute tonsillitis a year .
Chronic tonsillitis : episodes last longer than acute tonsillitis in addition to other symptoms that include : chronic sore throat , bad breath or halitosis and tender lymph nodes in the neck .
When to see a doctor ?
In rare cases , tonsillitis can cause the throat to swell so much that it causes trouble breathing .
If this happens , seek immediate medical attention .
See a doctor if you experience the following symptoms :
Fever that is higher than 103˚F or 39 . 5°C .
Muscle weakness and neck stiffness .
Sore throat that doesn 't go away after two days .
While some tonsillitis episodes go away on their own , some may require other treatments .
How tonsillitis is diagnosed ?
Diagnosis is based on a physical examination of your throat .
Your doctor may also take a throat culture by gently swabbing the back of your throat .
The culture will be sent to a laboratory to identify the cause of your throat infection .
Treatment for tonsillitis .
A mild case of tonsillitis does not necessarily require treatment , especially if a virus , such as a cold , causes it .
Treatments for more severe cases of tonsillitis may include antibiotics or a tonsillectomy .
Antibiotics will be prescribed to fight a bacterial infection .
It is important you complete the full course of antibiotics .
Your doctor may want you to schedule a follow - up visit to ensure that the medication was effective .
Surgery are only recommended for people who experience chronic or recurrent tonsillitis .
Surgery is also recommend to treat tonsillitis that does not respond to other treatment , or tonsillitis that causes complications .
If a person becomes dehydrated due to tonsillitis , he may need intravenous fluids .
Pain medicines to relieve the sore throat can also help while the throat is healing .
Home care tips to ease a sore throat .
Drink plenty of fluids .
Get lots of rest .
Gargle with warm salt water several times a day .
Use throat lozenges .
Use a humidifier to moisten the air in your home .
Avoid smoke .
Also , you can use over - the - counter pain medications , such as acetaminophen and ibuprofen .
Always check with your doctor before giving medications to children .
Tonsillitis complications .
People who experience chronic tonsillitis may start to experience obstructive sleep apnea .
This happens when the airway swells and prevents a person from sleeping well .
It is also possible the infection will worsen and spread to other areas of the body .
The infection can also cause a person to develop a buildup of pus behind the tonsils .
This can require drainage and more surgery .
If a person doesn 't take a full course of antibiotics or the antibiotics don 't kill off the bacteria , it is possible the person could develop complications .
These include heart and kidney problems .
Preventing tonsillitis .
Tonsillitis is highly contagious .
To decrease your risk of getting tonsillitis , stay away from people who have active infections .
Wash your hands often , especially after coming into contact with someone who has a sore throat , is coughing or sneezing .
If you have tonsillitis , try to stay away from others until you are no longer contagious .
Is the beach clean ?
Can one swim there ?
Isn’t it dangerous to swim there ?
Can one rent a sun umbrella / parasol here ?
Can one rent a deck chair here ?
Can one rent a boat here ?
I would like to surf .
I would like to dive .
I would like to water ski .
Can one rent a surfboard ?
Can one rent diving equipment ?
Can one rent water skis ?
I’m only a beginner .
I’m moderately good .
I’m pretty good at it .
Where is the ski lift ?
Do you have skis ?
Do you have ski boots ?
Do you exercise ?
Yes , I need some exercise .
I am a member of a sports club .
We play football .
We swim sometimes .
Or we cycle .
There is a football stadium in our city .
There is also a swimming pool with a sauna .
And there is a golf course .
What is on TV ?
There is a football match on now .
The German team is playing against the English one .
Who is winning ?
I have no idea .
It is currently a tie .
The referee is from Belgium .
Now there is a penalty .
Goal ! One – zero !
It is hot today .
Shall we go to the swimming pool ?
Do you feel like swimming ?
Do you have a towel ?
Do you have swimming trunks ?
Do you have a bathing suit ?
Can you swim ?
Can you dive ?
Can you jump in the water ?
Where is the shower ?
Where is the changing room ?
Where are the swimming goggles ?
Is the water deep ?
Is the water clean ?
Is the water warm ?
I am freezing .
The water is too cold .
I am getting out of the water now .
I want to go to the library .
I want to go to the bookstore .
I want to go to the newspaper stand .
I want to borrow a book .
I want to buy a book .
I want to buy a newspaper .
I want to go to the library to borrow a book .
I want to go to the bookstore to buy a book .
I want to go to the kiosk to buy a newspaper .
I want to go to the optician .
I want to go to the supermarket .
I want to go to the bakery .
I want to buy some glasses .
I want to buy fruit and vegetables .
I want to buy rolls and bread .
I want to go to the optician to buy glasses .
I want to go to the supermarket to buy fruit and vegetables .
I want to go to the baker to buy rolls and bread .
Shall we go to the department store ?
I have to go shopping .
I want to do a lot of shopping .
Where are the office supplies ?
I need envelopes and stationery .
I need pens and markers .
Where is the furniture ?
I need a cupboard and a chest of drawers .
I need a desk and a bookshelf .
Where are the toys ?
I need a doll and a teddy bear .
I need a football and a chess board .
Where are the tools ?
I need a hammer and a pair of pliers .
I need a drill and a screwdriver .
Where is the jewellery department ?
I need a chain and a bracelet .
I need a ring and earrings .
We’re looking for a sports shop .
We’re looking for a butcher shop .
We’re looking for a pharmacy .
We want to buy a football .
We want to buy salami .
We want to buy medicine .
We’re looking for a sports shop to buy a football .
We’re looking for a butcher shop to buy salami .
We’re looking for a drugstore to buy medicine .
I’m looking for a jeweler .
I’m looking for a photo equipment store .
I’m looking for a confectionery .
I actually plan to buy a ring .
I actually plan to buy a roll of film .
I actually plan to buy a cake .
I’m looking for a jeweler to buy a ring .
I’m looking for a photo shop to buy a roll of film .
I’m looking for a confectionery to buy a cake .
The human face of the refugee crisis .
What makes a person risk life and limb to reach Europe's shores ?
This extract from a new book telling the stories of five migrants recounts the events that led to one woman's harrowing journey from Eritrea to Greece .
Charlotte McDonald-Gibson 's Cast Away : Stories of Survival from Europe 's Refugee Crisis tells the story of the European Union 's chaotic and mismanaged response to the crisis through the eyes of five people who have arrived on Europe's shores since 2011 .
They include Sina not her real name , an Eritrean woman forced to flee with her husband Dani when she was heavily pregnant .
This is her story .
Dani was unlike anyone Sina had ever met in Eritrea .
Here , people tended to keep their thoughts , feelings , talents and any dissenting opinions to themselves .
Spies lurked in every classroom , every workplace , sometimes in your own home .
People heard rumours that life was similar in North Korea , but at least the rest of the world knew how awful that country was .
But Dani was the kind of man who could not contain his intelligence , and Sina was smitten from the moment she joined his drawing class in her second year of a chemical engineering degree .
Now he was asking Sina to spend the rest of her life with him , and suddenly everything made sense .
Optimism seized the young woman .
This marriage would be a genuine choice in a society where self-determination was rare .
In Eritrea , no one got to make their own decisions about their life .
You couldn 't choose where you lived , where you worked , which God you worshipped , which political group you supported , what you owned , or where you travelled .
It was all decided by a dictatorship still using two painful wars with neighbouring Ethiopia as an excuse to keep the entire population in perpetual servitude .
But Sina could only see the good in the world as she imagined her and Dani 's future together , despite the threat of indefinite military service hanging over the couple .
President Isaias Afewerki – a veteran of the independence struggle , who took power when Eritrea became a state in 1993 and never gave it up – introduced compulsory military service for all men and women in 1995 , nationally to protect the young state from future threats and promote self-sufficiency .
Everyone in the nation of 5 million people would be drafted , starting with gruelling boot camp in the last year of high school , then returning to the ranks upon graduation from school or university .
Not completing your service or deserting was one of the many crimes that could get you locked up in the nation’s jail network for an indefinite period of time , or even killed .
Never mind that military service could amount to a life sentence of torture , abuse , arbitrary detention and forced labour .
Sina thrived at school , and had won a 21-inch flatscreen TV as a reward for coming top of her year in all subjects .
That didn't exempt her from life as a soldier , however , and in her 12th-grade year – at the age of 16 – she was torn away from her family and sent to Sawa .
The short , melodic name of the military base belied the fear it inspired in Eritrea's youth .
Stripped of everything they knew , and abused – mentally , physically and , for some female conscripts , sexually – they either broke down with psychological problems they would bear for years to come , or if they were strong enough they quickly adapted to survive .
Sina turned out to be a strong one , and for the rest of the year of study and service , her mindset shifted .
I am not a student , I am a soldier .
In this way she got through it .
And after the pain of Sawa , university was a relief .
Chemical engineering was fascinating , friends came easily , her teachers – including Dani – encouraged her , and she got a paid part-time job at a western pharmaceutical company – albeit in secret as she did not have government permission .
Just like in high school , Sina shone at university , receiving her degree with a distinction .
After graduation in 2009 , the government decided she would be one of the rare few spared from active military duty , and allowed her to practise her profession .
For Sina , home would now be a dusty town in northern Eritrea , where she would work as a chemical engineer for a government firm .
But she felt blessed :
At least she could put her intellect to use working as a supervisor of a small team .
Her job was still considered part of her national service , so for working 12-hour days with no breaks she got paid 450 nakfa or $30 a month .
Her future husband had not been so fortunate in his career .
He was a fully qualified civil engineer and a talented teacher , but had been pulled out of the university when Sina was in her third year and told to report to the barracks for his new life as a soldier .
As the year went on , his supervisor became a little more relaxed , and turned a blind eye when Dani started to work part time as a private teacher .
The young couple still had to depend on their parents .
But when Dani proposed , Sina could imagine a future .
Leaving Eritrea never entered her mind .
After months of excited planning , Sina and Dani's wedding day finally arrived .
They had decided on a traditional Eritrean ceremony , and on 17 July 2013 , more than 300 friends and family gathered to watch the young couple exchange their vows .
But when Sina glanced around the room , she couldn't help but notice the absences .
Many friends had already fled Eritrea and were living in refugee camps in Sudan and Kenya .
Some had travelled further afield to try to escape the long arm of the Eritrean security apparatus .
No matter where you went in sub-Saharan Africa , if you had left Eritrea illegally the state could reach well outside national borders and drag you back for a cruel punishment .
Security forces in at least four countries had colluded in the forced repatriation of Eritreans , so many people had decided to try and reach Europe , the only place where they would feel safe .
Not that Sina would ever discuss these disappearances .
That alone could be enough to be thrown into a cell .
The most brutal retribution was reserved for those the government deemed traitors .
A simple slip-up like asking the wrong person about a missing friend or discussing general government policy could be enough to warrant the accusation of betraying your country .
Other crimes included practising a banned religion , plotting to leave the country , wandering too close to an external border , working for a foreign company , or simply being related to someone suspected of deviant behaviorr .
Given the number of people President Afewerki was locking away , there was a need for creativity when it came to the logistics of incarceration .
The official prisons were supplemented with secret facilities that included caves , holes , open-air camps and converted old buildings .
A particularly horrific innovation was the underground dungeon , a metal shipping container measuring 20 ft by 8ft buried in the desert .
No light could seep in , temperatures reached 44C , and screams would echo around the metal box , the sound unable to penetrate the soil above .
Conditions in all facilities were inhuman , with inmates crammed into small spaces with no toilets , forced to sleep in their own waste .
Sickness was common , and many people died of illness .
Others took their own lives .
Imprisonment was an everyday occurrence – everyone knew someone who had disappeared – and that was exactly how the regime wanted it .
Fear was its most powerful weapon , and it sowed it with expertise .
So deserting was not an option for Dani .
Instead , the couple decided to ask the military to transfer Dani to a post near Sina's office in the north of the country .
The request was turned down .
Dani 's supervisor had another plan for him .
He was to be sent 500km south of Asmara to take up his new post as a guard on the border with the neighbouring nation of Djibouti .
Sina and Dani spent just two and a half precious months together as man and wife before Dani boarded a bus down to the southern city of Assab .
There he would spend his days standing in the desert heat on the sun-baked southern plains of Eritrea , notionally keeping watch to prevent some of the tens of thousands of border jumpers escaping to Djibouti and other neighbouring countries .
Sina and Dani tried so hard to play by Eritrea's arbitrary rules , but it wasn't enough .
After a few months at the border , Dani disappeared .
It was only when he contracted an intestinal disorder in the filth and misery of his jail cell and was transported to Asmara for medical treatment that Sina learned what had happened .
Although Dani was an Orthodox Christian , some of his friends were Pentecostal – a banned religion in Eritrea – and one evening they were holding a prayer meeting in a room in the building where Dani lived .
Someone tipped off the military police , and every person living in the building was arrested and thrown in jail , no matter what religion they practiced .
When Dani's treatment at the Asmara hospital ended in early summer 2014 , he walked out the door and home to his wife .
With limited resources and plenty of deserters to worry about , it would take a few months for the authorities in the south to realise that Dani was missing .
Sina was determined to enjoy that time together , and for a while they were able to live under the illusion that they were just like any other young couple in the world .
They could enjoy long walks together again , meals in Asmara’s restaurants , time spent with their brothers , sisters , cousins and parents .
One day in August , Dani and Sina went to the clinic together .
The doctor smiled .
They were expecting a baby .
It was a bittersweet moment .
Happiness at the growing life was tempered by all the problems they would have to overcome to be able to give their baby a safe and secure home .
It was the summer of 2014 .
Their baby was due on 15 April the following year .
They had nine months to try to make a future worthy of the tiny life they had created .
But every moment of joy was overshadowed by fear .
The military police had finally started to look for Dani .
If he returned to prison , he would never be released , and Sina would have to bring up their child alone .
She too could be jailed for aiding a deserter .
Going on the run was their only choice .
Their smuggler had driven them with relative ease through the border to Sudan and on to South Sudan , but the only way across the border to Uganda was on foot .
Sina didn't complain .
All those marches during military service and the hardships of life in the field as a chemical engineer had prepared her well , and she followed Dani and the smuggler through thick forest tracts for two hours .
When they reached Uganda , she gratefully sank into the car that would take them to the capital .
Sina and Dani contacted a smuggler called Kibrat .
For $14 ,000 , he would prepare everything for their passage to Turkey , but he warned it could take a while .
The weeks passed , and Sina's belly grew .
After two months , Kibrat called .
Their fake passports were ready , and the couple could continue their journey and fly to Istanbul that coming Sunday – 16 March .
His call came just in time : Sina was eight months pregnant and starting to worry that she would never reach a safe place in time to give birth .
Then on Saturday , Kibrat called back .
There had been a change of plan .
Sina would have to fly alone and Dani would follow a few days later .
You have to go now , he said You are pregnant , and very pregnant people can't fly .
His advice seemed to make sense , so on Sunday morning Dani and Sina got into a car to go to the airport .
Just before the passenger drop-off point , Kibrat pulled over – Sina had to enter the airport alone .
The couple held each other by the roadside .
Take care of yourself , Dani said .
Sina just smiled – she would see him again in a few days .
Her car was waiting .
When she landed , an Eritrean smuggler called Mehari was waiting for her at the airport .
For a week , Sina stayed in Mehari's filthy apartment waiting for Dani .
But Dani never came .
Kibrat had stopped answering his phone .
After a week , his number was disconnected .
He had disappeared with the money , and Dani was left alone and penniless in Kampala , just a voice at the end of the phone promising Sina he was doing everything he could to get back to her .
Within a week , the promise of their new life together which had begun with such hope on New Year's Day was beginning to collapse .
When Mehari arrived at the apartment in Istanbul on 19 April and told her to get ready to travel to Greece , Sina was terrified .
She was past her due date and feared going into labour at sea , but Mehari was aggressive and left her with no choice .
When Sina looked out to sea having arrived by bus at the Turkish port of Marmaris , she saw a wooden sailing boat about 30 metres long approach the beach .
For a moment , she could not speak – it looked so old , its naked masts reaching into the darkness and rocking the boat back and forth in the low swell .
Mehari promised that a large ship with lifejackets was waiting just offshore , so Sina stepped aboard .
Perhaps in her heart Sina always knew there was not going to be another ship .
She had to believe the lie to get on the boat , as there was no one to accompany her on a two-hour trek back over the hills to the nearest road , to drive her for 10 hours back to Istanbul , and to give her a place to stay and to look after her when the child arrived .
When they cast off , Sina looked around her : people were doubled over and vomiting in response to the violent rocking and the stink of rotten fish .
Sina put her hands over her face , blocking out the sight , the sounds , the smell , If I start to vomit , I will deliver my baby here .
All she could do was focus on keeping her baby inside her for a few hours more .
Eventually , the flickering bulb that threw ghoulish shadows across the decaying wood went out .
Darkness enveloped the hold just as people started to notice the seawater seeping through the planks .
Sina put her hand to the floor .
Cold water pooled around the tyre where she sat .
One after another the passengers realised that calamity was approaching , and cries of terror spread back and forth through the throng of people , an anguished call and response .
We are almost dead , Sina thought .
The sailing boat was disintegrating beneath her feet : it had been ripped in two when it had attempted to turn at speed in the rough conditions .
Huge waves tore parts of the boat away , and all Sina could hear was the sound of splintering wood – a racking , shuddering sound – and the cries of the people flinging themselves into the water .
The coast was in sight , but it didn’t matter now .
Sina grabbed on to a rope dangling by her hand , and thought of Dani .
Sina looked out to sea and felt the wood beneath her feet give way and slide into the water , taking her with it .
First she went down , then up again , desperately trying to keep hold of the slippery rope .
Then there was nothing to hold on to any more .
She was in the water .
Sina heard a voice Please help us , we have a nine-month-pregnant woman , help her , she is here .
Then everything went black .
Antonis Deligiorgis , a sergeant in the Greek army , had just dropped his six-year-old son and 12-year-old daughter off at school and was having a coffee by Zefiros beach on the Greek island of Rhodes .
His eyes lazily drifted over the brilliant blue of the Mediterranean , a little rough that day but still beautiful in the early spring sunshine .
He had seen plenty of suffering that year :
Antonis had worked night-time rescues , saving people from the fragile inflatable dinghies to which they had entrusted their lives .
But on 20 April at 9 .30am , he was off duty , and enjoying spending time with his wife .
He didn’t see the tall sailing ship that had swerved in a tight turn to avoid the rocks on approach to Zefiros , the force of the manoeuvre snapping the craft in the middle .
But by the time the sirens grew louder and crowds had gathered on the port , he was up and ready to do what he could .
Whoever is a good swimmer can help ,a passing police officer shouted .
When Antonis reached the wreck , the water was slick with oil and wood , and all around him screams battled to be heard over the roar of the waves .
He saw wild eyes filled with terror ;
he saw panicked people vomiting into the water , their bodies trying to process the exhaustion , the mouthfuls of seawater , the fear of death .
One by one , Antonis grabbed thrashing bodies and dragged them through the water to the shore : children , women , an old man missing a leg .
A heavily pregnant woman clung to a life jacket .
She was close to the rocks , and her exhausted eyes darted with fear as she tried to battle the swell dragging her towards sharp crags .
The waves had already churned up the wood and glass from the broken boat and ground them into her flesh .
Antonis reached Sina just in time , pushing her into the arms of two men on the shore .
Thank you , thank you ,Sina repeated over and over again , you are saving my life .
Ninety-three Eritreans and Syrians were rescued that day , but Antonis remembered the ones who were lost .
Most people had survived because the boat broke up in daylight within yards of the Greek coastline , but three people perished : a Syrian man who died of a heart attack , and an Eritrean woman and her six-year-old son .
Sina was taken to the hospital in Rhodes , where she was treated for cuts all over her body .
Doctors kept her under observation for a couple of days while her body regained its strength , then took her to the operating theatre for a caesarean section .
On 23 Apri l , Sina gave birth to a healthy baby boy .
Andonis Georgis – named after his saviour – was born at 9pm weighing 4 .5kg , strong like his mother and destined to keep her going through the days ahead .
On 20 July , Dani finally left Kampala and went with a smuggler back through South Sudan and into Sudan , renting a hotel room in Khartoum .
He called the next day from the Sudanese capital , and told Sina that he had an appointment with the Greek embassy there in a few days time .
Soon they would be together again , and he would be able to hold his son in his arms for the first time .
On the morning of Sunday 26 July , Sina got up by now in Athens , fed Andonis and went for breakfast in the hotel restaurant .
Just like they did every other morning , many of the regular guests asked after Dani .
They were so used to seeing this cheerful young woman tending her baby with one hand and clutching her mobile phone in the other , chatting away to her husband as if he were right there beside her .
But that morning , Sina was not her usual sunny self .
She had not spoken to Dani in five days .
The last news she had had from him was on 21 July , when he had arrived in Khartoum and called to say he had an appointment at the Greek embassy .
Then there was silence .
His phone just rang and rang .
Sina now lives with Andonis , near Gothenburg , Sweden . She is still waiting for her refugee papers .
Housing .
When you get your residence permit , you will be permitted to move to a municipality . The government determines in which municipality you will be living . This municipality will see to it that you get a house and it will try to take account of your circumstances when choosing a home for you . In principle , you cannot refuse this house , for you will not get another house .
After you have signed the tenancy contract for your house , it is important that you register with the municipality as soon as possible . You can only apply for a benefit after you have registered . Usually , there is someone to help you with this , such as your counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees , a different organisation , or the municipality .
Furnishing your house .
Most municipalities will give you a loan to furnish your first house . The amount of the loan may differ by municipality . In a thrift shop , you can buy many things and furniture for little money .
Fixed charges for a house .
The rent for a rented house must be paid every month in advance , so before the first day of the month . In some municipalities , you can borrow the money for the first month apos & ; s rent . And if your income is low and you have a self - contained rented flat , you will often qualify for rent allowance . See the page Work & income for more information about this subject . For electricity and gas , you will have to enter into a contract with a power supplier . For water and also for district heating instead of gas you cannot choose your supplier and you will have to register with the company that supplies water at your address . For television , telephone , and internet connection , there are many providers to choose from . Ask your counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees to help you make a choice . Other fixed charges are the municipal taxes and the water authority taxes . If your income is insufficient , you may be granted remission of these taxes .
BSN .
When you get your residence permit , you must register in the Municipal Personal Records Database . COA can tell you where and when this is done . After registration , you will receive a citizen service number . The BSN is a unique personal identification number you need in your communication with government agencies .
Applying for a DigiD .
Contacts with the government go more and more via the Internet : all sorts of applications must be submitted via websites , letters are no longer delivered by post , but are delivered to the online messages box . You will often need a DigiD for this : a personal username with password . The COA or your counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees can help you to apply for a DigiD , or you can do this yourself at here . It is important that you do not forget the password . This password is personal ; do not share it with others . Click the link at the bottom of this page for more information about DigiD . If you are not yet good at Internet , or if you want to use the Berichtenbox and websites of the government independently , you can follow a course at many libraries . Everything about DigiD in Dutch , English , French , and Arab .
The role of the Dutch Council for Refugees .
Your counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees can help you with many practical matters , often even before you move from the reception centre to your house . Once you have moved , you can contact a counsellor of the Dutch Council for Refugees in your municipality . If the Dutch Council for Refugees is not active in your municipality , a different organisation or the municipality will provide guidance .
If you want to move from your first house to a different house , you will have to search for this house yourself . We usually do not provide guidance in that case . However , we do have the Moving Checklist : a list of all matters that need to be arranged .
Asylum procedure .
If you are a refugee , you can get protection in the Netherlands . In that case , you will have to apply for asylum . During the asylum procedure the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) assesses on behalf of the Dutch government whether or not you are a refugee according to the Convention on Refugees and Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights .
In the Netherlands , you will be able to get an asylum residence permit under the following conditions :
You fear persecution because of race , religion , nationality , political opinion or because you belong to a particular social group .
You fear the death penalty , torture or another form of inhumane treatment .
You fear becoming a victim of random violence from war in your country of origin .
You are traumatised by events in your country of origin .
If your asylum application is rejected , you will have to leave the Netherlands and return to your country of origin .
Please note !
Safe countries and Dublin claim .
If you arrived in another European country before you came to the Netherlands , or if you have a visa for another European country , the information about the Dutch asylum procedure does not apply to you . For more information , click here :
Leaflet : Which country is responsible for your asylum application ?
If you originate from a country that has been designated by the Dutch government as safe , your asylum procedure will be accelerated . For more information , click here :
List of safe countries .
Where do you apply for asylum ?
If you wish to apply for asylum and you entered the Netherlands by land , you will have to go to Ter Apel application centre . Wherever you are in the Netherlands , you can get a ticket from the police to travel to Ter Apel . If you arrived at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol or a Dutch port , you must report to the Royal Netherlands Marechaussee . After this , you will be taken to a closed reception centre Justitieel Complex Schiphol . Staff members at the open reception centre in Ter Apel or at the closed reception centre will record your personal details . They will also take photos and fingerprints from you and search your clothes and luggage . In addition , they will take possession of your telephone , but you will get it back as soon as possible . After this , several asylum seekers will be transferred from Ter Apel to other open reception centres to follow the asylum procedure there .
After your arrival in the Netherlands .
After you have applied for asylum , the so - called rest and preparation period starts . This period lasts about six days , but this number of days may vary . At the centre , you will be told what the current procedure is . Anyway , you will have a medical check - up . The staff members of the Dutch Council for Refugees Nederland will give you information about the steps to be followed . You will also meet your lawyer . When you are staying at an open reception centre , the first meeting with your lawyer will be at his or her office . You will get a ticket to travel to your lawyer . The lawyer will assist you during your asylum procedure . The lawyer will be assigned to you through the government , but he or she is independent . The staff members of the Dutch Council for Refugees are also independent . You can discuss with the Dutch Council for Refugees or with your lawyer which documents you might retrieve from your country of origin to support your asylum application , identity , nationality , and travel route .
Interpreter .
An independent interpreter will be called in to translate everything that is being said during your interviews with the IND , staff members of the Dutch Council for Refugees , and your lawyer . If you do not understand the interpreter well , or if you notice that the interpreter does not understand you well or does not translate your account properly , please say so immediately during the interview .
Reception .
During your asylum procedure , you are entitled to reception facilities and a living allowance . You will be staying at an asylum seekers centre of the government agency COA or in the Justitieel Complex Schiphol . After the asylum procedure , there are two possibilities :
If your asylum application is granted , you will be allowed to stay at the reception centre until you are allocated a house .
If your asylum application is rejected , your right to reception facilities ends . Dependent on the reason of the rejection , you will have to leave the reception centre within a specific period of time .
Start of the asylum procedure .
Your asylum procedure starts after the rest and preparation period . The government agency IND assesses within eight days whether or not you comply with the conditions for an asylum residence permit or that more time is needed for investigation . Below is a description of how the asylum procedure will work .
Day 1 : Initial interview or verification interview .
You will have an official interview in which an IND staff member asks questions about your identity , your nationality , your travel route , and about the composition of your family before your came to the Netherlands . The IND staff member will not yet ask any questions about why you had to flee . Please note : be complete , clear , and honest . It is OK if you do not know an answer ; take sufficient time to answer the questions you do know .
Day 2 : Preparation for detailed interview .
You will discuss the report of the initial interview with your lawyer . If something is missing or recorded incorrectly , your lawyer will report this to the IND by letter . Your lawyer will furthermore prepare you for the second interview with the IND .
Day 3 : Detailed interview .
The second interview with an IND staff member is called detailed interview . During this interview , you can tell why you fled . If you have any scars , physical or psychological problems that are related to the reason why you fled , it is important to tell the IND staff member about this . Be honest , complete , and clear about what happened to you .
Day 4 : Talk about detailed interview .
Together with your lawyer , you will check the report of the detailed interview . If something is missing or recorded incorrectly , your lawyer will report this to the IND by letter .
Day 5 : Intended decision .
The IND will assess whether you comply with the conditions for an asylum residence permit . There are three possible outcomes .
You are recognised as a refugee . You will get a residence permit for five years . This means that you will be allowed to live and work in the Netherlands .
The IND informs you by letter that it needs more time for investigation . Your application will now be processed in the Extended Asylum Procedure . A decision is made within six months .
According to the IND , you do not comply with the conditions for a residence permit . You will receive a letter stating that the IND intends to reject your asylum application and for which reasons .
Day 6 : Viewpoint .
You will discuss the intended decision with your lawyer . Together , you can write a letter with arguments why you do not agree with the intended decision . This letter is called viewpoint .
Days 7 and 8 : Decision .
With due observance of the viewpoint , the IND assesses whether the intended decision should be altered . There are three possibilities :
The IND recognises you as a refugee after all . You will get a residence permit for five years .
The IND needs more time for investigation . Your application will now be processed in the Extended Asylum Procedure . A decision is made within six months .
The IND sticks to its opinion that you do not comply with the conditions for an asylum residence permit . You will receive a letter from the IND stating why your asylum application has been rejected and that you will have to leave the Netherlands . Your lawyer may appeal IND apos & ; s decision to court . If the decision of the court is also negative , you will have to leave the Netherlands . Click here for more information about return .
Role of the Dutch Council for Refugees
The Dutch Council for Refugees is of the opinion that each asylum procedure must go smoothly . Therefore , the staff members and volunteers of the Dutch Council for Refugees assist you in the different steps :
We provide information about the asylum procedure , so that you know what will be expected from you .
We are present at each reception centre and act like a kind of intermediary . We can , for example , pass on your questions to the lawyer and pass on questions from the lawyer to you .
We explain the letters you get from the IND and those from your lawyer . This can be done during our consultation hours . We will also lend you a sympathetic ear if you need one . Anything you tell the Dutch Council for Refugees will be kept confidential and will not be shared with your lawyer or the IND without your permission .
We assist you in having sent relevant documents to the Netherlands .
Together with you , we can independently analyse your account of your flight to get more clarity about the risk you run upon return . You can use this analysis during your conversation with the lawyer .
At your or your lawyer apos & ; s request , somebody of the Dutch Council for Refugees can attend your interviews in order to provide assistance and to ensure that you get enough room to give your account .
We assist you in finding acquaintances or family members .
More information and links .
Information about the IND .
Information about the COA .
Peptic Ulcer .
Peptic ulcers are open sores that develop on the inside lining of the stomach and the upper portion of the small intestine .
The most common symptom of a peptic ulcer is stomach pain .
Peptic ulcers include .
Gastric ulcers that occur on the inside of the stomach .
Duodenal ulcers that occur on the inside of the upper portion of your small intestine .
The most common causes of peptic ulcers are infection with the bacterium Helicobacter pylori and long - term use of aspirin and certain other painkillers , such as ibuprofen and naproxen sodium .
Stress and spicy foods do not cause peptic ulcers .
However , they can make the symptoms worse .
Symptoms of peptic ulcers include burning stomach pain , feeling of fullness , bloating or belching , fatty food intolerance , heartburn and nausea .
The most common peptic ulcer symptom is burning stomach pain .
Stomach acid makes the pain worse .
The pain can often be relieved by eating certain foods that buffer stomach acid or by taking an acid - reducing medication , but then it may come back .
The pain may be worse between meals and at night .
Nearly three - quarters of people with peptic ulcers don 't have symptoms .
Less often , ulcers may cause severe signs or symptoms such as : vomiting or vomiting blood — which may appear red or black , dark blood in stools , or stools that are black or tarry , trouble breathing , feeling faint , nausea or vomiting , unexplained weight loss and appetite changes .
When to visit a doctor ?
Visit your doctor if you have the severe signs or symptoms listed above .
Also visit your doctor if over - the - counter antacids and acid blockers relieve the pain but the pain returns .
Causes .
Peptic ulcers occur when acid in the digestive tract eats away at the inner surface of the stomach or small intestine .
The acid can create a painful open sore that may bleed .
Our digestive tract is coated with a mucous layer that normally protects against acid .
But if the amount of acid is increased or the amount of mucus is decreased , we could develop an ulcer .
Common causes include .
Helicobacter pylori bacteria commonly live in the mucous layer that covers and protects tissues that line the stomach and small intestine .
Often , the H . pylori bacterium causes no problems , but it can cause inflammation of the stomach &apose ;s inner layer , producing an ulcer .
It&apose ;s not clear how H . pylori infection spreads .
It may be transmitted from person to person by close contact , such as kissing .
People may also contract H . pylori through food and water .
Regular use of certain pain relievers .
Taking aspirin , as well as certain over - the - counter and prescription pain medications can irritate or inflame the lining of your stomach and small intestine .
These medications include ibuprofen and naproxen sodium , but not acetaminophen .
Peptic ulcers are more common in older adults who take these pain medications frequently or in people who take these medications for osteoarthritis .
Risk factors .
In addition to taking certain pain medications , including aspirin , you may have an increased risk of peptic ulcers if you : smoke , drink alcohol , have untreated stress and eat spicy foods .
Smoking may increase the risk of peptic ulcers in people who are infected with H . pylori .
Alcohol can irritate and erode the mucous lining of the stomach , and it increases the amount of stomach acid that 's produced .
Alone , these factors do not cause ulcers , but they can make them worse and more difficult to heal .
Complications .
Left untreated , peptic ulcers can result in .
Bleeding can occur as low blood loss that leads to anemia or as severe blood loss that may require hospitalization or a blood transfusion .
Severe blood loss may cause black or bloody vomit or black or bloody stools .
Peptic ulcers can eat a hole through the wall of the stomach or small intestine , putting you at risk of serious infection of your abdominal cavity .
Peptic ulcers can lead to swelling , inflammation or scarring that may block passage of food through the digestive tract .
A blockage may make you become full easily , vomit and lose weight .
Prevention .
You may reduce your risk of peptic ulcer if you follow the same strategies recommended as home remedies to treat ulcers .
Protect yourself from infections .
It 's not clear just how H . pylori spreads , but there's some evidence that it could be transmitted from person to person or through food and water .
You can take steps to protect yourself from infections , such as H . pylori , for example by frequently washing your hands with soap and water and by eating foods that have been cooked completely .
Use caution with pain relievers .
If you regularly use pain relievers that increase your risk of peptic ulcer , take steps to reduce your risk of stomach problems .
For instance , take your medication with meals .
Work with your doctor to find the lowest dose possible that still gives you pain relief .
Avoid drinking alcohol when taking your medication , since the two can combine to increase your risk of stomach upset .
Some policies seem so altruistic that it is almost impossible to imagine any objection to them .
For example , lending small amounts of money or writing off debts to help the extreme poor are intended to help the most vulnerable , and both approaches seem entirely sensible .
However , scrutiny reveals these well-intentioned policies to be misguided .
Around a decade ago , NGOs , international organizations , and philanthropists trumpeted microcredit as a silver bullet that would end extreme poverty .
The United Nations designated 2005 as the International Year of Microcredit , and when the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Muhammad Yunus and Grameen Bank the following year , the Nobel committee declared microcredit “an ever more important instrument in the fight against poverty .”
The humanitarian pop star Bono went further : “Give a man a fish , he’ll eat for a day .
Give a woman microcredit , she , her husband , her children , and her extended family will eat for a lifetime .”
Unfortunately , evidence carefully collected over many years shows that there is no such thing as a silver bullet for poverty – and certainly no such thing as a cheap , easy policy that can feed an entire family for a lifetime .
A series of trials has underscored the importance of microcredit program design , and , in many cases , these schemes simply don’t do much good in eradicating poverty .
Seldom have they been found to increase average incomes by very much . Worse , they run the risk of burdening the poor with additional debt .
New research reveals that hard questions should also be asked about debt-waiver policies , which have been implemented in several Indian states .
Last year , Uttar Pradesh , Maharashtra , and Punjab undertook large-scale farm-debt waivers that collectively cost 0 .5% of India’s GDP .
Commissioned by Tata Trusts and Copenhagen Consensus for India Consensus , Professor Nilanjan Banik from Bennett University , Greater Noida , studied the schemes .
His analysis shows that if , for example , the Indian state of Rajasthan were to copy other states and waive formal loans for land holders with less than two hectares , this would cost 117 .4 billion rupees ($1 .7 billion) .
However , only 15% of the most marginal farmers (those with less than one hectare of land) have access to formal credit , so a loan waiver does little to help the poorest .
Moreover , previous experience has shown that a waiver makes banks more cautious about lending , leading to a 15% reduction in smallholder credit over following years .
This cuts revenue for the most vulnerable farmers by 13 .5% .
So while the waiver provides a little cash quickly , it ends up doing less good than it costs .
Each rupee spent achieves just 0 .8 rupee in benefits .
Like microcredit , waiving debt is a well-intentioned way to help the extreme poor that fails to generate the promised returns .
However , other research reveals approaches that would actually do a lot more .
The new analyses from India Consensus follow the Copenhagen Consensus approach of studying costs and benefits , used previously to improve priorities for billions of dollars in spending in Haiti and Bangladesh , and to help sharpen the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals .
In Indian states where many farmers live in extreme poverty , improving the flow of crops to marketplaces is more important than waiving debt or supplying microcredit .
Currently , nearly 20% of India’s fresh produce is wasted because of storage problems , so most small farmers do not risk growing perishable crops that would yield more revenue than staples .
Using the state of Rajasthan as an example again , creating the infrastructure to store and transport milk , fruit , and vegetables safely would cost half as much as loan waivers .
The reduction in wasted food , combined with encouragement to farmers to shift to higher-return crops , would generate benefits worth more than 15 times that amount .
The Costs of Trade War .
According to an old African proverb , When elephants fight , it is the grass that suffers .
The same is true for full-blown trade wars : when major economies clash , developing countries will be among the hardest hit .
On June 1 , the US administration imposed import tariffs of 25% on steel and 10% on aluminum .
The levies will affect not just China , but also Canada , Mexico , and the countries of the European Union .
As Cecilia Malmström , the EU Commissioner for Trade , observed at a recent event held by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development , We are not in a trade war , but we could be .
It is a situation that should concern everyone .
We know from history that nobody wins in a trade war .
Tariff hikes by major trading countries represent a reversal of efforts since the end of World War II to eliminate trade barriers and facilitate global commerce .
Since the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade took effect in 1947 , the average value of tariffs in force around the world has declined by 85% .
That is no coincidence ; rather , it is the result of multilateral cooperation , and eight rounds of global trade negotiations , first under the GATT , and then under its successor , the World Trade Organization .
Tariff reductions , together with technological advances , drove the extraordinary expansion of global trade that we have witnessed just in our lifetimes .
In 1960 , trade as share of world GDP stood at 24% ; today it is nearly 60% .
The expansion of trade has fueled economic growth , created jobs , and increased household incomes around the world .
It is a key factor behind the rise of the global South , where dozens of developing countries have experienced strong economic growth and positive societal change .
And it made possible one of the most remarkable achievements in human history : lifting one billion people out of poverty in the space of just two decades .
Yet trade expansion has not benefited everyone equally .
And in some cases , it has resulted in environmental degradation and economic displacement , with many people now feeling left behind .
These are serious and legitimate issues that must be addressed .
But unilateralism is not the way to do it .
Global challenges demand global solutions .
Unfortunately , current trade actions augur a situation in which everyone will lose .
In a trade war , companies across a wide range of sectors will lose profits , and workers will lose jobs .
Governments will lose revenue , and consumers will have fewer product choices available .
And , no matter where they are , firms , governments , and households will incur higher costs .
Even worse , a global trade war might jeopardize the multilateral trading system itself .
It would no doubt result in tariff increases greater than anything we have seen in recent history .
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development research shows that average tariffs could rise from negligible levels to as high as 30% for US exporters and 35% and 40% for EU and Chinese exporters , respectively .
So , even if the elephants have sufficient economic weight to withstand a trade war , they would not benefit from one .
And , of course , developing countries that played no role in starting the conflict would be even less able to afford it .
On average , tariffs applied on developing countries’ exports could rise from 3% to 37% .
But whereas average tariffs affecting countries like Nigeria and Zambia probably would not go above 10% , those against Mexico could reach as high as 60% .
Likewise , countries like Costa Rica , Ethiopia , Sri Lanka , Bangladesh , and Turkey could face average tariffs of 40-50% .
Moreover , a trade war would be a severe blow to the world's poorest countries , and to the hope of doubling least developed countries share of global exports by 2020 under the Sustainable Development Goals .
It would compromise the fragile economic recovery since the global financial crisis a decade ago , thus undercutting growth and development around the world .
And it would limit the extent to which trade could be used to advance global goals .
The harm caused by a full-on trade war would be felt well beyond the realm of international commerce .
Today's trade climate reflects a disturbing global trend toward nationalist unilateralism .
The countries that helped reshape our world for the better through trade are now abandoning international cooperation , and that shift may have serious implications for other areas such as global efforts to combat climate change and ensure peace and prosperity for all .
The easiest way to win a trade war is to avoid it altogether .
Questions on a Psychological Evaluation .
When people find themselves faced with psychological evaluations , it is often because they require treatment for a mental disorder .
Psychological evaluations involve a psychologist asking a patient a series of questions to assess his mental condition and medical history .
Questions vary depending on the purpose of the evaluation , but most evaluations include the same basic questions .
Background Questions .
Most questionnaires ask basic background questions that evaluate your history of mental and physical health and your current life situation .
Questions include .
What is your current career ?
How many hours do you work per week ?
Do you enjoy your work ?
How stressed do you feel after work ?
Questions may deal with family situations , friends and where you currently live .
Why do you want therapy ?
What do you think therapy can do for you ?
Questions on Depression .
Questions on depression aim to determine if the person taking the evaluation is suffering from depression .
Questions may aim to determine if the depression is mild or severe .
Common questions include .
Do you feel sad , unmotivated or depressed ?
Have you have any thoughts or feelings of self-harm or suicide ?
Many questionnaires ask if the test-taker has attempted any self-harm and for the details of any experiences .
Questions About Other Mental Problems .
Common questions for a psychological evaluation include ;
Do you have a temper ?
Do you feel anxious frequently ?
Do you hear voices or feel as if you are not in control of your actions ?
Do you feel people are trustworthy ?
How much do you care what others think of you ?
What are you afraid of ?
How worried are you on a daily basis ?
Drug Use .
For practical and medical purposes , most evaluations include questions about current medications as well as alcohol and drug use .
Questions deal with past and present drug use as well as your feelings towards alcohol .
How does alcohol change your mood ?
What are your feelings about alcohol ?
How many drinks do you consume per week ?
Do you have a history of illegal drug use ?
The Power of Empowering Refugees .
For many refugees , access to education is the key to a more prosperous future .
In Uganda , a unique refugee-led initiative has converted donor support into a sustainable school system and training program that provides a blueprint for self-sufficiency for displaced people everywhere .
KAMPALA – In a small community on the equator , children from diverse backgrounds attend classes in one of the region’s top primary schools .
The school has a brass band , a farm , an artists collective , microfinance and literary clubs , and support groups for victims of domestic violence .
There is even a mentorship program to help girls affected by conflict continue their studies .
This educational paradise is not in a rich country with unlimited resources ; it is in a refugee camp in western Uganda .
It is funded not by infusions of foreign aid , but by refugees operating on a tight budget And it is a blueprint for empowering refugees everywhere .
This experiment in refugee education began in 2005 , when I and other children were living in the Kyangwali refugee settlement in Uganda 's Hoima district .
With little food and limited access to health care , we struggled to survive ; formal schooling was out of the question .
But , because we understood that education was the key to prosperity , we taught each other what we could .
Older students tutored younger students and everyone worked to earn money to buy textbooks and uniforms .
In time , these seeds of grassroots learning eventually blossomed into a youth-led , volunteer organization that runs training initiatives as well as the COBURWAS School , named for the countries of origin of the children in the refugee settlement : the Democratic Republic of Congo , Burundi , Rwanda , and South Sudan .
Today , more than 1 ,500 students are enrolled in primary schools started by CIYOTA and CIYOTA alumni .
More than 700 graduates have attended secondary school , and more than 40 alumni are pursuing advanced degrees at universities around the world .
Our graduates have been honored as Mastercard Foundation Scholars for their academic aptitude , social consciousness , and leadership qualities .
And alumni have even attended the African Leadership Academy , one of Africa's preeminent training colleges .
This organizational relationship is particularly important , as it has greatly enhanced CIYOTA's professional network .
Many young Africans have already benefited from the CIYOTA initiative , but our work does not stop at the classroom door .
Because we understand that children learn better when they have strong support systems behind them , we also work with parents and community members to make education a higher priority .
In this way , we hope to reach even more children in need of quality education .
Our organization may have humble roots , but our plans are grand .
We want to transform Africa by broadening poor students’ access to knowledge .
In our view , finding a seat in school is only the first step ; we want to inspire children to become leaders and entrepreneurs , and to apply skills learned in school to improving their communities and countries .
As refugees , our goal has always been empowerment through self-sufficiency .
But executing even the best-laid plans requires significant resources , and CIYOTA would still be an idea were it not for the generosity of others .
For example , during a chance encounter years ago , I met a well-connected fundraiser at the African Leadership Academy who helped us raise $20 ,000 in seed money .
And the office of the prime minister donated land so CIYOTA could cultivate bananas , maize , and other produce to feed students and generate income .
These gestures are all the more remarkable given the growing number of refugees flooding into Uganda .
Today , some 1 .5 million displaced people live in the country , and that number is only likely to increase as regional conflicts intensify .
At a time when other countries are turning refugees away , Uganda is swinging its doors open .
We want refugee youth around the world to be inspired by our experience .
Newly displaced people need food and emergency support , but the longer refugees are away from their homes , the more they need access to institutions that enable self-determination .
With jobs , land , and schools , refugees can recapture something lost when they fled hope .
If the world is ever to achieve universal primary education , a goal the international community committed to nearly seven decades ago , it will need many more schools like ours .
The refugee-run education programs in Kyangwali are examples of what can happen when young people are given the tools to manage their own destiny .
Dutch law provides access to social welfare for beneficiaries of international protection under the same conditions as nationals .
There is no special legislation for beneficiaries of international protection beyond general legislation valid for every resident legally present in the Netherlands , except for asylum seekers whose rights are regulated by RVA .
No distinction is made between refugees and subsidiary protection beneficiaries .
Types and conditions of social assistance .
Beneficiaries of international protection between the age of 18 and 67 can apply for .
Social benefit (algemene bijstand) : The social benefit is meant to financially support people who are not able to cater for their own living and cannot rely on other social facilities until a job has been found .
Benefits , which have a different aim from the social benefit .
Child benefit .
Persons with a relatively low income can also count on a contribution towards specific costs .
Beneficiaries of international protection can apply for .
Health care benefit .
Rent benefit .
Child care benefit .
Supplementary child care benefit .
The Coalition Agreement of October 2017 has introduced a new plan with regard to the access to social welfare of beneficiaries of international protection .
According to that plan , prospective beneficiaries of international protection will no longer be entitled to the social benefit , rent benefit and health care benefit during the first 2 years of their legal stay in the Netherlands .
Instead beneficiaries of international protection will receive services by the municipalities such as housing , a healthcare insurance and assistance in the integration process in kind .
In addition , beneficiaries of international protection will receive an allowance .
The implications of these plans are far from clear yet and it remains to seen whether this agreement is actually going to be converted into law .
Municipalities are responsible for providing social benefits for their residents .
The Tax Office provides the benefits and the Social Security Bank allocates the child benefit .
Conditions for obtaining social welfare .
Apart from certain financial requirements , the beneficiary of international protection must also meet benefit-specific conditions .
Child care benefit : the person must : have a paid job or attend a civic integration course , provided that the course is compulsory .
If the beneficiary has a spouse , both persons have to meet one of the aforementioned conditions in order to be eligible for the child care benefit together .
Rent benefit : The person concerned must : rent a house ; have a signed rental contract ; be registered in the Persons Database of the municipality where the property is located and have a rental contract of durable nature .
Child benefit : The child benefit is not dependent on the income of the beneficiary .
Each resident who is legally present in the Netherlands and has a child is in principle eligible .
However , the person must demonstrate that there is a durable bond of personal nature between him or her and the Netherlands .
This bond is presumed in the case of beneficiaries of international protection , but can be problematic for other foreigners who become eligible only after a certain period of time e .g . six months or one year .
The benefits and child benefit are not tied to a requirement to reside in a specific place or region .
The social benefit as such is not bound by a requirement of residence either .
However , the person concerned can only apply for a social benefit at the municipality in whose BRP he or she is registered .
Obstacles to accessing social assistance in practice .
Processing times .
After the beneficiary has applied for the social benefit the processing time for the allocation and payment can run up to 8 weeks .
Municipalities can grant an advance payment but this does not always cover the whole period .
To prevent further delay , it is of upmost importance to apply for the social benefit timely .
The processing time for the application is even longer for young adults below the age of 27 , who are subject to a statutory waiting period of 4 weeks .
In these 4 weeks the young adult has to try to find a paid job .
If he or she is not successful in finding a job , the municipality starts processing the application .
Also in this situation , after these 4 weeks , municipalities have 8 weeks to process the allocation and payment of the social benefit .
Another known problem is the situation of collective housing of multiple , unconnected , beneficiaries .
Collective housing was an important instrument especially in 2016 , in order to cope with high housing demand due to the large influx of arrivals .
The so-called “kostendelersnorm” was introduced in the Participation Act in 2015 and applies to persons aged 18 to 67 .
The aim of the sharing the cost is to prevent a stack of social benefits within one household .
The rationale is that family , friends and/or roommates can share costs and that less social benefits are therefore needed .
More concretely , this means that the group as a whole gets more social benefit , although the individual pro rata sum is lower .
However , beneficiaries who do not have a link with one another do not share the costs in practice .
This can lead to situations in which the income of beneficiaries is so low that its falls under the poverty line .
Beneficiaries can also be confronted by the so-called ALO-kopproblematiek .
The ALO-kop is a part of the supplementary child care benefit and can be seen as an additional financial compensation for single parents .
In practice , problems arise when the spouse of the beneficiary is still living abroad awaiting family reunification .
A spouse living abroad cannot be registered in the computer system of the Tax Office , because spouses and cannot be registered in the BRP of the municipality at that stage .
In order to obtain benefits , including the supplementary child benefit , the Tax Office thus proposes that beneficiaries register themselves as single parents .
However , the supplementary child care benefit and the ALO-kop are linked in the computer system of the Tax Office and cannot be granted separately .
As a result , by applying for the supplementary child care benefit , the beneficiary also automatically receives the ALO-kop , even though the beneficiary is not entitled to the ALO-kop .
When the family reunification has been finalized and the spouse is registered in the BRP , the Tax Office will automatically be notified .
The Tax Office is then legally obliged to recover the ALO-kop .
It regularly occurs that the beneficiary becomes aware of this fact too late and has spent the ALO-kop .
The alternative is to not apply for the supplementary child care benefit at all , yet practice shows that beneficiaries really need this contribution .
The Dutch Refugee Council has addressed and continues to address this issue , but unfortunately to no avail so far .
Is this table taken ?
I would like the menu , please .
What would you recommend ?
I’d like a beer .
I’d like a mineral water .
I’d like an orange juice .
I’d like a coffee .
I’d like a coffee with milk .
With sugar , please .
I’d like a tea .
I’d like a tea with lemon .
I’d like a tea with milk .
Do you have cigarettes ?
Do you have an ashtray ?
Do you have a light ?
I’m missing a fork .
I’m missing a knife .
I’m missing a spoon .
An apple juice , please .
A lemonade , please .
A tomato juice , please .
I’d like a glass of red wine .
I’d like a glass of white wine .
I’d like a bottle of champagne .
Do you like fish ?
Do you like beef ?
Do you like pork ?
I’d like something without meat .
I’d like some mixed vegetables .
I’d like something that won’t take much time .
Would you like that with rice ?
Would you like that with pasta ?
Would you like that with potatoes ?
That doesn’t taste good .
The food is cold .
I didn’t order this .
I would like a starter .
I would like a salad .
I would like a soup .
I would like a dessert .
I would like an ice cream with whipped cream .
I would like some fruit or cheese .
We would like to have breakfast .
We would like to have lunch .
We would like to have dinner .
What would you like for breakfast ?
Rolls with jam and honey ?
Toast with sausage and cheese ?
A boiled egg ?
A fried egg ?
An omelette ?
Another yoghurt , please .
Some salt and pepper also , please .
Another glass of water , please .
I’d like chips / French fries (am .) with ketchup .
And two with mayonnaise .
And three sausages with mustard .
What vegetables do you have ?
Do you have beans ?
Do you have cauliflower ?
I like to eat (sweet) corn .
I like to eat cucumber .
I like to eat tomatoes .
Do you also like to eat leek ?
Do you also like to eat sauerkraut ?
Do you also like to eat lentils ?
Do you also like to eat carrots ?
Do you also like to eat broccoli ?
Do you also like to eat peppers ?
I don’t like onions .
I don’t like olives .
I don’t like mushrooms .
Cultural Diversity in the Workplace
4 Essential Skills
From our increasingly diverse domestic workforce to the globalization of business , cultural competence is arguably the most important skill for effective work performance in the 21st century .
What is cultural diversity in the workplace ? Culture refers to the 7 Essentials of Workplace Cultural Competence : the values , norms , and traditions that affect the way a member of a group typically perceives , thinks , interacts , behaves , and makes judgments . It even affects perceptions of time , which can impact day - to - day scheduling .
Cultural competence , in brief , is the ability to interact effectively with people from different cultures . This ability depends on awareness of ones own cultural worldview , knowledge of other cultural practices and worldviews , tolerant attitudes towards cultural differences , and intercultural skills .
The more different cultures work together , the more cultural competency training is essential to avoid problems . Cultural problems can range from miscommunication to actual conflict , all endangering effective worker productivity and performance , in genral about challenges of culturally diverse teams at work .
Managing Cultural Diversity in the Workplace
Developing cultural competence results in an ability to understand , communicate with , and effectively interact with people across cultures , and work with varying cultural beliefs and schedules . While there are myriad cultural variations , here are some essential to the workplace :
1 . Communication : Providing information accurately and promptly is critical to effective work and team performance . This is particularly important when a project is troubled and needs immediate corrective actions . However , people from different cultures vary in how they relate to bad news . People from some Asian cultures are reluctant to give supervisors bad news – while those from other cultures may exaggerate it .
2 . Team - Building : Some cultures – like the United States – are individualistic , and people want to go it alone . Other cultures value cooperation within or among other teams . Team-building issues can become more problematic as teams are comprised of people from a mix of these cultural types . Effective cultural team - building is essential to benefiting from the potential advantages of cultural diversity in the workplace .
3 . Time : Cultures differ in how they view time . For example , they differ in the balance between work and family life , and the workplace balance between work and social behavior . Other differences include the perception of overtime , or even the exact meaning of a deadline . Different perceptions of time can cause a great misunderstanding and mishap in the workplace , especially with scheduling and deadlines .
4 . Schedules : Work can be impact by cultural and religious events affecting the workplace . The business world generally runs on the western secular year , beginning with January 1 and ending with December 31 . But some cultures use wildly different calendars to determine New Years or specific holy days . For example , Eastern Orthodox Christians celebrate Christmas on a different day from western Christians . For Muslims , Friday is a day for prayer . Jews observe holidays ranging from Rosh Hashanah to Yom Kippur . These variations affect the workplace as people require time off to observe their holidays .
So how does one develop cultural competence ? Be sure to enjoy part 2 of this article Managing Cultural Diversity in the Workplace . This exclusive article explores 4 more components of cultural diversity in the workplace , and strategies , skills and techniques for helping people develop cultural competence .
Welcome !
This website is about personal identification number .
Let me explain to you what personal identification number is .
These days , you can arrange many matters with the government via the internet .
That is handy !
Because you arrange important matters with the government , you must be able to identify yourself on the internet .
This means that the government can see that it really is you .
But how does the government know that it is you and not someone else ?
This is why the government conceived of the personal identification number .
personal identification number means Digital Identity .
personal identification number is the access to your digital identity .
This is how you prove that it is really you .
With your personal identification number , you can log in on government websites , such as the municipality , the Employee Insurance Agency , the Social Insurance Bank , the police and the Tax Authorities .
You can also use personal identification number for your hospital , pharmacy or health insurance .
You can recognize websites that require the use of your personal identification numbe to log in by the personal identification number logo , You will see the logo when you must log in .
Your personal identification number consists of a user name and a password that you choose yourself .
Government organizations have personal information about you .
You arrange important matters with the government .
For this reason , personal identification number must be very secure .
This is why your user name and password are meant for you and you alone .
Never give them to anyone else .
If you would like someone else to be able to arrange matters with the government on your behalf , you can grant that person power of attorney .
When you grant someone power of attorney , you are giving that person permission to arrange matters for you with their own personal identification number .
I will now explain to you how you can request personal identification number , so that you will be able to log in on government websites with your personal identification number .
You only have to request personal identification number once .
Then you can login with your personal identification number .
In order to request personal identification number , you will need a computer with an internet connection and , if you have one , your mobile phone .
You will also need your citizen service number , date of birth , postal code and house number .
Your citizen service number consists of 9 digits and is on your Dutch passport , driving license , identity card , and health insurance card .
Your citizen service number is the personal number by which the government recognizes you .
A citizen service number is also called a personal identification number .
Do you not have a citizen service number yet ?
You can request one from your municipal authority .
Would you like to request personal identification number ? Go to www .digid .nl .
Click on Submit at the bottom left of the personal identification number website .
You will then see this screen .
Enter your citizen service number , date of birth , postal code and house number and Click on Next .
If you have a mobile phone , you can make your personal identification number even more secure . Select the extra check via a free text message .
Each time you log in with personal identification number , you will receive an extra code with which you show that it is really you .
A number of websites require this extra check , like that of your healthcare insurer and sometimes of the Tax Authorities and the Social Insurance Bank .
Create a user name and password and enter them . Note : You must enter your password twice .
Your user name must consist of at least 6 characters .
The user name may not already be in use by someone else .
For your password , you must use a capital letter , a small letter , a digit and a punctuation mark .
Your password must consist of at least 8 characters .
Your user name and password are meant only for you .
Never give them to anyone else .
This is for security purposes .
In this way , no one can access your personal information .
Enter your mobile phone number and e-mail address .
If you are blind or visually impaired , spoken text messages can be sent to your telephone number .
Please tick this box if you would like this and Click on Next .
You will also receive an e-mail at the e-mail address that you had entered .
This e-mail contains a code . Enter this code and click on "Next" .
You have now submitted a request for your personal identification number .
Within 3 days , you will receive a letter by post .
The letter contains a code with which you can complete your personal identification number in order to log in .
This is called activation .
Activate your DigiD within 21 days !
With the letter , your user name and password , you can activate your personal identification number .
Go to www .digid .nl and click on "Enter code" .
Click on Enter activation code .
In order to activate your personal identification number ,enter your user name and password . Click on Log in .
If you had entered your mobile phone number when requesting your personal identification number , you will receive a text message on your telephone .
Enter this code and click on "Next" .
Enter the code from the letter that you received by post . Click on "Next" .
You will now see this screen , Your personal identification number has been activated .
From now on , you can log in to government websites with personal identification number .
DIARRHEA : TODDLER , AGE 1 TO 3 YEARS .
WHAT IS DIARRHEA ?
Diarrhea is the sudden increase in the frequency and looseness of stools .
Mild diarrhea is the passage of a few loose or mushy stools .
Severe diarrhea is the passage of many watery stools .
The best indicator of the severity of the diarrhea is its frequency .
The main complication of diarrhea is dehydration from the loss of too much body fluid .
Symptoms of dehydration are a dry mouth , the absence of tears , infrequent urination and a darker , concentrated urine .
The main goal of diarrhea treatment is to prevent dehydration .
WHAT IS THE CAUSE ?
Diarrhea is usually caused by a viral infection of the lining of the intestines .
Sometimes it is caused by bacteria or parasites .
Occasionally a food allergy or drinking too much fruit juice may cause diarrhea .
If your child has just one or two loose stools , the cause is probably something unusual your child ate .
A diet of nothing but clear fluids for more than 2 days may cause green , watery stools called starvation stools .
HOW LONG WILL IT LAST ?
Diarrhea from a viral infection usually lasts several days to 2 weeks , regardless of the type of treatment .
The main goal of treatment is to prevent dehydration .
Your child needs to drink enough fluids to replace the fluids lost in the diarrhea .
Don't expect a quick return to solid stools .
WHAT SHOULD I FEED MY CHILD ?
Increased fluids and dietary changes are the main treatment for diarrhea .
Note : One loose stool can mean nothing .
Don't start dietary changes until your child has had several loose stools .
Frequent , watery diarrhea .
Fluids .
Encourage your child to drink lots of fluids to prevent dehydration .
Milk and water are both fine .
However , if your child refuses solids , give your child just milk , rather than water .
Avoid fruit juices , because they all make diarrhea worse .
Table foods .
Keep giving your child table foods while he has diarrhea .
The choice of food is important .
Starchy foods are digested best .
Examples of such foods are dried cereals , bread , crackers , rice , pasta , and mashed potatoes .
Pretzels or saltine crackers can help meet your child's need for sodium .
Soft-boiled eggs and yogurt are easily digested and provide some protein .
Mild diarrhea .
Follow a regular diet with a few simple changes .
Eat more foods containing starch .
Starchy foods are easily digested during diarrhea .
Examples are cereal , breads , crackers , rice , mashed potatoes , and pasta .
Drink extra water .
Avoid all fruit juices and carbonated drinks .
Milk and milk products are fine .
Avoid beans or any other foods that cause loose stools .
HOW CAN I TAKE CARE OF MY CHILD ?
There is no effective , safe drug for diarrhea .
Extra fluids and diet therapy work best .
Probiotics .
Probiotics contain healthy bacteria that can replace unhealthy bacteria in the Gastrointestinal tract .
Yogurt is the easiest source of probiotics .
Give your child 2 to 6 ounces of yogurt twice daily .
Today almost all yogurts are active culture , which means that they contain live and active bacteria .
Probiotic supplements in granules , tablets , or capsules are also available in health food stores .
Common mistakes .
Kool-Aid and soda pop , should be avoided because they contain no salt and too much sugar .
Use only the fluids suggested here .
Fruit juices especially apple and grape should be avoided because they are too concentrated and make the diarrhea worse .
Clear fluids alone should be used for only 4 to 6 hours because the body needs more calories than clear fluids can provide .
Milk is a good well balanced fluid for diarrhea .
The most dangerous myth is that the intestine should be put to rest .
Restricting fluids can cause dehydration .
Prevention .
Diarrhea can be very contagious .
Always wash your hands after changing diapers or using the toilet .
This is crucial for keeping everyone in the family from getting diarrhea .
Diaper rash from diarrhea .
The skin near your child's anus can become irritated by the diarrhea .
Wash the area near the anus after each stool and then protect it with a thick layer of petroleum jelly or other ointment .
Protection is especially needed during the night and during naps .
Changing the diaper quickly after stools also helps .
Vomiting with diarrhea .
If your child has vomited more than twice , follow your doctor's recommended treatment for vomiting instead of this treatment for diarrhea until your child has gone 8 hours without vomiting .
WHEN SHOULD I CALL MY CHILD'S HEALTHCARE PROVIDER ?
Call IMMEDIATELY if .
There are signs of dehydration .
Any blood appears in the diarrhea .
The diarrhea is severe : more than 8 stools in the last 8 hours .
The diarrhea is watery AND your child also vomits repeatedly .
Your child starts acting very sick .
Call during office hours if .
Mucus or pus appears in the stools .
A fever lasts more than 3 days .
Mild diarrhea lasts more than 2 weeks .
You have other concerns or questions .
Appendicitis .
Appendicitis is an inflammation of the appendix .
Appendix is a finger - shaped pouch that projects from the colon on the lower right side of our abdomen .
Although the appendix is a vestigial organ with no known function , it can become diseased .
Appendicitis causes pain in your lower right abdomen .
However , in most people , pain begins around the navel and then moves .
As inflammation worsens , appendicitis pain typically increases and eventually becomes severe .
Although anyone can develop appendicitis , most often it occurs in people between the ages of 10 and 30 .
Standard treatment is surgical removal of the appendix .
Symptoms of appendicitis .
Signs and symptoms of appendicitis may include .
Sudden pain that begins on the right side of the lower abdomen .
Sudden pain that begins around your navel and often shifts to your lower right abdomen .
Pain that worsens if you cough , walk or make other movements .
Nausea and vomiting or loss of appetite .
Low - grade fever that may worsen as the illness progresses .
Constipation or diarrhea .
Abdominal bloating .
The site of the pain may vary , depending on age and the position of the appendix .
When you are pregnant , the pain may seem to come from your upper abdomen because your appendix is higher during pregnancy .
When to see a doctor ?
Call your doctor immediately , if you are unsure of your symptoms .
Take your temperature every two hours and keep a record for your doctor .
Make an appointment with a doctor if you or your child has worrisome signs or symptoms .
Severe abdominal pain requires immediate medical attention .
Causes of appendicitis .
A blockage in the lining of the appendix that results in infection is the likely cause of appendicitis .
The bacteria multiply rapidly , causing the appendix to become inflamed , swollen and filled with pus .
If not treated promptly , the appendix can rupture .
Complications of appendicitis .
Appendicitis can cause serious complications .
A ruptured appendix .
A rupture spreads infection throughout your abdomen .
Possibly life - threatening , this condition requires immediate surgery to remove the appendix and clean your abdominal cavity .
A pocket of pus that forms in the abdomen .
If your appendix bursts , you may develop a pocket of abscess .
In most cases , a surgeon drains the abscess by placing a tube through your abdominal wall into the abscess .
The tube is left in place for two weeks , and you are given antibiotics to clear the infection .
Once the infection is clear , you will have surgery to remove the appendix .
In some cases , the abscess is drained , and the appendix is removed immediately .
Prevention of Appendicitis .
There are no specific preventive measures .
Contrary to popular belief , swallowing seeds from fruit does not precipitate appendicitis .
Diagnosis of Appendicitis .
Physical examination is necessary to rule out other disorders that produce symptoms similar to those of appendicitis .
A rectal examination may be performed .
Blood and urine samples will be taken for analysis .
CT scan or an abdominal x - ray may be necessary .
Important information in your own language
When you are new to the Netherlands , there are many things unknown and complex . As long as you have not mastered the Dutch language , it is difficult to find the right information . Whereas you must settle all kinds of important affairs . On this website , you will find relevant information for refugees in your own language .
Asylum procedure
Read about how the asylum procedure works in the Netherlands in general , where you will be staying , and with whom you will be dealing .
Family reunification
Which conditions must be met if you wish to reunite with your family members ?
Housing
Read about all the things you have to arrange when you are allocated a house and are going to live in a municipality .
Healthcare
Information about the compulsory health insurance , the excess , the healthcare benefit , the family doctor , specialist care , and more .
Work and income
How to get a job in the Netherlands ? And how to get money if you have not got a job yet ?
How to integrate
Read more about the obligations around integration imposed on newcomers by the Dutch government .
Education
More information about the possibilities in the Dutch educational system for asylum seekers and refugees .
If you are not granted asylum
Read about which options you have if your asylum application is rejected .
Information for children
Are you younger than 18 years of age and looking for information about school , living in a reception centre , or Dutch culture ? The Children apos & ; s Helpline and the Dutch Council for Refugees have websites especially for refugee children .
About the Dutch Council for Refugees
The Dutch Council for Refugees is an independent organisation that acts in the best interests of refugees and asylum seekers in the Netherlands . Our employees and many volunteers commit themselves to the protection of asylum seekers and refugees by providing personal support and representing their interests at their admission , reception , and social participation . We base our work on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights .
How to integrate .
If you come to live in the Netherlands , it would be best for you to learn the language quickly , to find out about the customs , and to learn the written and unwritten rules . It will then be easier for you to find your way and feel welcome sooner ; you will then become part of Dutch society . This is called integration . It may sometimes be difficult to integrate . But it is also interesting and exciting . A whole new world is opening up to you !
The success of your integration depends largely on your own initiative . In addition , the Dutch government imposes obligations regarding integration on newcomers . The integration obligation and signing the Participation Statement .
Integration obligation
The integration obligation applies to every new resident aged between 18 and 67 years . The integration obligation starts as soon as you get a residence permit . You have complied with this obligation once you have signed the Participation Statement and passed the Civic Integration Examination or State Examination . These examinations consist of the following parts : Dutch language , Knowledge of Dutch Society , and Orientation on the Dutch Labour Market .
Finding an integration course .
You are personally responsible for choosing a school or course for your integration . You can find schools in your area on the website . Blik at Work is a quality mark , which indicates the quality of the school . You can read about each school how satisfied the students are , how many students have passed the exams , and how much one lesson costs . When you choose a school with the Blik at Work quality mark , you can apply to DUO for a loan . With this loan , you can pay the integration course and the exams .
Integration period .
You have three years to pass all exams , or five years if you must first take literacy training learn how to read and write in Dutch script . This is called the integration period . If you pass all exams in time and you have an asylum residence permit , you do not have to pay back the DUO loan . Passing the Civic Integration Examination is also important if you want to apply for a permanent residence permit or a Dutch passport . If you fail the exams within this period - and you do not have a good reason why you did not pass them - you can get a maximum fine of € 1 ,250 .
Please note !
Extension of integration period .
If , after 300 hours of lessons , you think that you need more than three years to pass your exams , you can sometimes be granted an extension of the integration period . You must apply for this extension at DUO . The Dutch Council for Refugees or your language school can help you with this .
Learning Dutch yourself and extra practising .
You are not obliged to follow a Dutch language course , but it is very difficult to pass the Civic Integration Examination without having followed a course . Besides , you must often prove to the municipality that you are actively learning the language . If you want to practise the language , there are many possibilities . such as :
New to the Netherlands .
On the website of new to the Nederlands you can find all kinds of videos with Dutch , English or Arab subtitling . You can watch the news and other TV programmes , and films on different integration themes .
This is a simple app filled with clear pictograms , arranged in different categories in Dutch , English , and Arab , such as Transportation & Travel , Living , Health , and Food & Drinks . You can download the app from Google Play Store or Apple App Store .
Libraries .
Many public libraries offer the opportunity to practise the Dutch language , but you can also go there to meet other people and participate in activities that help you integrate .
And it is important to practise the language a lot . You may be able to get a language coach from the Dutch Council for Refugees or some other organisation . Do you have neighbours or acquaintances with who you can practise Dutch regularly ? Or you could do voluntary work ? you will then gain work experience and learn the language .
Participation Statement .
Norms and values differ by country . As a new resident in the Netherlands , you may be confronted with Dutch norms and values that may be somewhat different from those you were used to . Several norms and values have been laid down in the Dutch Constitution and legislation . such as :
The freedom of religion and speech .
Everyone is equal , whether you are a man , a woman , hetero , gay , lesbian , or transgender .
You are not permitted to discriminate and others are not permitted to discriminate you .
You are free to marry whoever you choose .
These subjects are discussed during one or more workshops of the Participation Statement Programme . You do not have to find a school for this programme yourself . You will get an invitation for this programme from the municipality or from the organisation that provides the workshops . At the end of the lessons , you will sign the Participation Statement . You must do this within a year after you have received your residence permit . The Participation Statement is an obligatory part of the integration . If you have a regular residence permit , you must pay € 150 for this , if you have an asylum residence permit , the municipality will pay this for you .
The role of the Dutch Council for Refugees .
If you have any questions about Integration , do not hesitate to put them to your counsellor of the Dutch Council for Refugees . We can give information about the obligation to participate in an integration programme , about suitable integration courses in your area , and about a loan from DUO .
hello .
what is your name ?
How old are you ?
where do yo live ?
good .
yes .
no .
How are you ?
good morning .
good day .
good night .
sweet dream .
Work and Income .
Many refugees want to start working as quickly as possible . Work is an important step in building up a new life in the Netherlands . You feel useful and you earn your own living . For many refugees , however , it is difficult to find work as long as they have no command of Dutch . Until you have work , you get financial assistance from the government in the Netherlands . On this page , we explain about this assistance , finding work , and income tax .
Working with a residence permit .
With an asylum residence permit , you have the same rights and obligations in the labour market as any other Dutch person . Your alien apos & ; s document then states . With some residence permits you are not permitted to work , this will then be indicated on your alien apos & ; s document .
Who can help me find work ?
Ask your municipality which possibilities there are in your town and its surrounding area . Employment agencies place people with employers , usually for temporary work . NGOs like the Dutch Council for Refugees , Foundation for Refugee Students , and Refugee Talent Hub can sometimes also help you find work .
Tips to find work independently .
Write a good and clear CV listing your education and work experience .
Make a good profile with a representative photo .
Make a profile .
Search for vacancies on the Internet on websites .
Ask within your network whether someone knows where to find suitable work .
If you decide to register with employment agencies , immediately put your best foot forward . The people of the employment agency must believe in you before they introduce you to an employer .
Become a volunteer . This way you will gain work experience , build up a network , feel useful , and show potential employers that you are a hands - on person . The Dutch Council for Refugees also seeks volunteers frequently .
Income tax .
If you work , but also if you receive a benefit , you must pay income tax . Usually , the employer – or the municipality if you receive a social assistance benefit – pays this for you . Once a year , the Tax and Customs Administration may ask you to pass on all details about your income digitally . This is called the tax return . If you have received a letter about the tax return from the Tax and Customs Administration , you are obliged to do this . The Tax and Customs Administration will then calculate if you have paid enough tax or if you must make an additional payment or if – on the contrary – you will get money back . To know for sure that you complete the tax return correctly , you can get help from the Tax and Customs Administration . You can make an appointment for this through the Tax Information Line : 08000543 .
Attention !
Tax refund .
If too much income tax has been paid for you , for example if you lived in a reception centre for part of the year , you can get money back by means of the M form . But please note that your municipality may regard that refund as income . In that case , the municipality will deduct this amount from your benefit . So ask the municipality in advance how it deals with tax refunds before you complete the M form .
Work and income during the asylum procedure .
While staying at the reception centre , you will get a living allowance for clothes and food from the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers COA every week . If your procedure lasts longer than six months , you will be permitted to do paid work or to work as an independent entrepreneur . This is permitted for a maximum period of 24 weeks a year . Your employer must apply for a work permit for this purpose . Once you receive an income , all or part of your living allowance will be withheld . You are , of course , also permitted to do voluntary work unpaid work during the asylum procedure .
Income and social security .
If you have not got any work yet , or if your income is low , you can make use of a number of benefits . To be able to apply for these benefits , you usually need a citizen service number and a DigiD . For more information about DigiD , see the page about Housing .
1 . Social assistance benefit .
If you leave the reception centre and go and live in a municipality and you have not got any work yet , you can apply for a social assistance benefit at the municipality . The Dutch Council for Refugees will usually help you with this application before your move to the municipality . The social assistance benefit is a monthly amount that you receive from the Dutch government . It is a low income on which you will have to manage financially . If you have received a credit from the municipality to furnish your house , money will be deducted from your social assistance benefit for some time . Some municipalities furthermore require that you do something in return for the social assistance benefit you get , for example by doing voluntary work and by proving that you are taking Dutch lessons .
2 . Rent benefit and healthcare benefit .
When your income is low , you are often entitled to benefits . This means that the Dutch government contributes towards your costs for the rent and the health insurance . The amount of the housing benefit and healthcare benefit depends on your personal situation and the level of your income . Before you move from a reception centre to a house , the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers will apply for the rent benefit and healthcare benefit for you . The COA will need a copy of the signed tenancy contract . So make sure that your contact person at the COA receives this copy .
The Tax and Customs Administration will pay the benefits every month as an advance payment . At the beginning of each new year , it calculates whether the benefits received were correct . If you got a paid job or a better paid job halfway through the year , for example , you may need to pay back the benefits . So always pass on any changes in your income to the Tax and Customs Administration in time . More information about benefits in the Netherlands .
3 . Child benefit .
Child benefit is a contribution from the Dutch government towards the costs for raising your children up to 18 years old . The amount of this benefit depends on your child apos & ; s age and whether your child lives with you . The child benefit is paid out every three months by the Social Insurance Bank . Once you have received a residence permit , you can apply for child benefit . Sometimes the Central Agency for the COA will do this for you . The living allowance you get for the children during your stay at the reception centre will stop three months after you have received a residence permit . More information about applying for child benefit in different languages .
4 . Supplementary child benefit .
The supplementary child benefit is a monthly contribution for families in addition to the child benefit . It is meant for families with lower to middle incomes and is paid out by the Tax and Customs Administration . If you get child benefit – and you also get rent benefit and healthcare benefit – you will automatically also get the supplementary child benefit . Is your partner still abroad ? Problems with the supplementary child benefit may arise once your partner has arrived in the Netherlands . Ask the Dutch Council for Refugees what to do to prevent these problems . More information about supplementary child benefit in the Netherlands .
5 . Childcare benefit .
If you work or if you are taking an integration course and your children do not yet go to secondary school , they can go to childcare or out - of - school childcare . You can receive a contribution from the Dutch government to pay all or part of these costs . This contribution is called childcare benefit . Please note that if your partner does not , or does not yet , live in the Netherlands , you are usually not entitled to childcare benefit . Make enquiries with the Dutch Council for Refugees or the Tax and Customs Administration to prevent you from having to pay back a large amount . More information about childcare benefit .
6 . Food bank and other facilities .
In a large number of municipalities , organisations are active that distribute food products to families with low incomes . This is called a food bank . Your counsellor of the Dutch Council for Refugees will assess whether you qualify for this facility and help you with registering .
The facilities for persons and families with low incomes may differ by municipality . Examples are an emergency fund for unexpected high costs or a fund that pays the contribution for a sports club of your child . Make enquiries about these facilities with your municipality or your counsellor of the Dutch Council for Refugees .
Old Testament
Genesis 1
1 At the first God made the heaven and the earth .
2 And the earth was waste and without form ; and it was dark on the face of the deep : and the Spirit of God was moving on the face of the waters .
3 And God said , Let there be light : and there was light .
4 And God , looking on the light , saw that it was good : and God made a division between the light and the dark .
5 Naming the light , Day , and the dark , Night , And there was evening and there was morning , the first day .
6 And God said , Let there be a solid arch stretching over the waters , parting the waters from the waters .
7 And God made the arch for a division between the waters which were under the arch and those which were over it : and it was so .
8 And God gave the arch the name of Heaven , And there was evening and there was morning , the second day .
9 And God said , Let the waters under the heaven come together in one place , and let the dry land be seen : and it was so .
10 And God gave the dry land the name of Earth ; and the waters together in their place were named Seas : and God saw that it was good .
11 And God said , Let grass come up on the earth , and plants producing seed , and fruit - trees giving fruit , in which is their seed , after their sort : and it was so .
12 And grass came up on the earth , and every plant producing seed of its sort , and every tree producing fruit , in which is its seed , of its sort : and God saw that it was good .
13 And there was evening and there was morning , the third day .
14 And God said , Let there be lights in the arch of heaven , for a division between the day and the night , and let them be for signs , and for marking the changes of the year , and for days and for years .
15 And let them be for lights in the arch of heaven to give light on the earth : and it was so .
16 And God made the two great lights : the greater light to be the ruler of the day , and the smaller light to be the ruler of the night : and he made the stars .
17 - 18 And God put them in the arch of heaven , to give light on the earth , to have rule over the day and the night , and for a division between the light and the dark : and God saw that it was good .
19 And there was evening and there was morning , the fourth day .
20 And God said , Let the waters be full of living things , and let birds be in flight over the earth under the arch of heaven .
21 And God made great sea - beasts , and every sort of living and moving thing with which the waters were full , and every sort of winged bird : and God saw that it was good .
22 And God gave them his blessing , saying , Be fertile and have increase , making all the waters of the seas full , and let the birds be increased in the earth .
23 And there was evening and there was morning , the fifth day .
24 And God said , Let the earth give birth to all sorts of living things , cattle and all things moving on the earth , and beasts of the earth after their sort : and it was so .
25 And God made the beast of the earth after its sort , and the cattle after their sort , and everything moving on the face of the earth after its sort : and God saw that it was good .
26 And God said , Let us make man in our image , like us : and let him have rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over the cattle and over all the earth and over every living thing which goes flat on the earth .
27 And God made man in his image , in the image of God he made him : male and female he made them .
28 And God gave them his blessing and said to them , be fertile and have increase , and make the earth full and be masters of it ; be rulers over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing moving on the earth .
29 And God said , See , I have given you every plant producing seed , on the face of all the earth , and every tree which has fruit producing seed : they will be for your food :
30 And to every beast of the earth and to every bird of the air and every living thing moving on the face of the earth I have given every green plant for food : and it was so .
31 And God saw everything which he had made and it was very good , and there was evening and there was morning , the sixth day .
Genesis 2
1 And the heaven and the earth and all things in them were complete .
2 And on the seventh day God came to the end of all his work ; and on the seventh day he took his rest from all the work which he had done .
3 And God gave his blessing to the seventh day and made it holy : because on that day he took his rest from all the work which he had made and done .
4 These are the generations of the heaven and the earth when they were made .
5 In the day when the Lord God made earth and heaven there were no plants of the field on the earth , and no grass had come up : for the Lord God had not sent rain on the earth and there was no man to do work on the land .
6 But a mist went up from the earth , watering all the face of the land .
7 And the Lord God made man from the dust of the earth , breathing into him the breath of life : and man became a living soul .
8 And the Lord God made a garden in the east , in Eden ; and there he put the man whom he had made .
9 And out of the earth the Lord made every tree to come , delighting the eye and good for food ; and in the middle of the garden , the tree of life and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil .
10 And a river went out of Eden giving water to the garden ; and from there it was parted and became four streams .
11 The name of the first is Pishon , which goes round about all the land of Havilah where there is gold .
12 And the gold of that land is good : there is bdellium and the onyx stone .
13 And the name of the second river is Gihon : this river goes round all the land of Cush .
14 And the name of the third river is Tigris , which goes to the east of Assyria , And the fourth river is Euphrates .
15 And the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to do work in it and take care of it .
16 And the Lord God gave the man orders , saying , You may freely take of the fruit of every tree of the garden :
17 But of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you may not take ; for on the day when you take of it , death will certainly come to you .
18 And the Lord God said , It is not good for the man to be by himself : I will make one like himself as a help to him .
19 And from the earth the Lord God made every beast of the field and every bird of the air , and took them to the man to see what names he would give them : and whatever name he gave to any living thing , that was its name .
20 And the man gave names to all cattle and to the birds of the air and to every beast of the field ; but Adam had no one like himself as a help .
21 And the Lord God sent a deep sleep on the man , and took one of the bones from his side while he was sleeping , joining up the flesh again in its place :
22 And the bone which the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman , and took her to the man .
23 And the man said , this is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh : let her name be Woman because she was taken out of Man .
24 For this cause will a man go away from his father and his mother and be joined to his wife ; and they will be one flesh .
25 And the man and his wife were without clothing , and they had no sense of shame .
Genesis 3
1 Now the snake was wiser than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made , and he said to the woman , has God truly said that you may not take of the fruit of any tree in the garden ?
2 And the woman said , we may take of the fruit of the trees in the garden .
3 But of the fruit of the tree in the middle of the garden , God has said , if you take of it or put your hands on it , death will come to you .
4 - 5 And the snake said , death will not certainly come to you , for God sees that on the day when you take of its fruit , your eyes will be open , and you will be as gods , having knowledge of good and evil .
6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food , and a delight to the eyes , and to be desired to make one wise , she took of its fruit , and gave it to her husband .
7 And their eyes were open and they were conscious that they had no clothing and they made themselves coats of leaves stitched together .
8 And there came to them the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the evening wind : and the man and his wife went to a secret place among the trees of the garden , away from the eyes of the Lord God .
9 And the voice of the Lord God came to the man , saying , where are you ?
10 And he said , hearing your voice in the garden I was full of fear , because I was without clothing : and I kept myself from your eyes .
11 And he said , Who gave you the knowledge that you were without clothing ?
Have you taken of the fruit of the tree which I said you were not to take ?
12 And the man said , The woman whom you gave to be with me , she gave me the fruit of the tree and I took it .
13 And the Lord God said to the woman , What have you done ?
And the woman said , I was tricked by the deceit of the snake and I took it .
14 And the Lord God said to the snake , Because you have done this you are cursed more than all cattle and every beast of the field ; you will go flat on the earth , and dust will be your food all the days of your life .
15 And there will be war between you and the woman and between your seed and her seed : by him will your head be crushed and by you his foot will be wounded .
16 To the woman he said , Great will be your pain in childbirth ; in sorrow will your children come to birth ; still your desire will be for your husband , but he will be your master .
17 And to Adam he said , Because you gave ear to the voice of your wife and took of the fruit of the tree which I said you were not to take , the earth is cursed on your account ; in pain you will get your food from it all your life .
18 Thorns and waste plants will come up , and the plants of the field will be your food .
19 With the hard work of your hands you will get your bread till you go back to the earth from which you were taken : for dust you are and to the dust you will go back .
20 And the man gave his wife the name of Eve because she was the mother of all who have life .
21 And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife coats of skins for their clothing .
22 And the Lord God said , Now the man has become like one of us , having knowledge of good and evil ; and now if he puts out his hand and takes of the fruit of the tree of life , he will go on living for ever .
23 So the Lord God sent him out of the garden of Eden to be a worker on the earth from which he was taken .
24 So he sent the man out ; and at the east of the garden of Eden he put winged ones and a flaming sword turning every way to keep the way to the tree of life .
Genesis 4
1 And the man had connection with Eve his wife , and she became with child and gave birth to Cain , and said , I have got a man from the Lord .
2 Then again she became with child and gave birth to Abel , his brother , And Abel was a keeper of sheep , but Cain was a farmer .
3 And after a time , Cain gave to the Lord an offering of the fruits of the earth .
4 And Abel gave an offering of the young lambs of his flock and of their fat , And the Lord was pleased with Abel 's offering ;
5 But in Cain and his offering he had no pleasure , and Cain was angry and his face became sad .
6 And the Lord said to Cain , Why are you angry ? and why is your face sad ?
7 If you do well , will you not have honour ? and if you do wrong , sin is waiting at the door , desiring to have you , but do not let it be your master .
8 And Cain said to his brother , Let us go into the field : and when they were in the field , Cain made an attack on his brother Abel and put him to death .
9 And the Lord said to Cain , Where is your brother Abel ? And he said , I have no idea : am I my brother 's keeper ?
10 And he said , What have you done ? the voice of your brother 's blood is crying to me from the earth .
11 And now you are cursed from the earth , whose mouth is open to take your brother 's blood from your hand ;
12 No longer will the earth give you her fruit as the reward of your work ; you will be a wanderer in flight over the earth .
13 And Cain said , My punishment is greater than my strength .
14 You have sent me out this day from the face of the earth and from before your face ; I will be a wanderer in flight over the earth , and whoever sees me will put me to death .
15 And the Lord said , Truly , if Cain is put to death , seven lives will be taken for his , And the Lord put a mark on Cain so that no one might put him to death .
16 And Cain went away from before the face of the Lord , and made his living - place in the land of Nod on the east of Eden .
17 And Cain had connection with his wife and she became with child and gave birth to Enoch : and he made a town , and gave the town the name of Enoch after his son .
18 And Enoch had a son Irad : and Irad became the father of Mehujael : and Mehujael became the father of Methushael : and Methushael became the father of Lamech .
19 And Lamech had two wives ; the name of the one was Adah , and the name of the other Zillah .
20 And Adah gave birth to Jabal : he was the father of such as are living in tents and keep cattle .
21 And his brother 's name was Jubal : he was the father of all players on instruments of music .
22 And Zillah gave birth to Tubal - cain , who is the father of every maker of cutting instruments of brass and iron : and the sister of Tubal - cain was Naamah .
23 And Lamech said to his wives , Adah and Zillah , give ear to my voice ; you wives of Lamech , give attention to my words , for I would put a man to death for a wound , and a young man for a blow ;
24 If seven lives are to be taken as punishment for Cain 's death , seventy - seven will be taken for Lamech 's .
25 And Adam had connection with his wife again , and she gave birth to a son to whom she gave the name of Seth : for she said , God has given me another seed in place of Abel , whom Cain put to death .
26 And Seth had a son , and he gave him the name of Enosh : at this time men first made use of the name of the Lord in worship .
Genesis 5
1 This is the book of the generations of Adam , In the day when God made man , he made him in the image of God .
2 Male and female he made them , naming them Man , and giving them his blessing on the day when they were made .
3 Adam had been living for a hundred and thirty years when he had a son like himself , after his image , and gave him the name of Seth .
4 And after the birth of Seth , Adam went on living for eight hundred years , and had sons and daughters .
5 And all the years of Adam 's life were nine hundred and thirty : and he came to his end .
6 And Seth was a hundred and five years old when he became the father of Enosh .
7 And he went on living after the birth of Enosh for eight hundred and seven years , and had sons and daughters .
8 And all the years of Seth 's life were nine hundred and twelve : and he came to his end .
9 And Enosh was ninety years old when he became the father of Kenan .
10 And after the birth of Kenan , Enosh went on living for eight hundred and fifteen years , and had sons and daughters .
11 And all the years of Enosh were nine hundred and five : and he came to his end .
12 And Kenan was seventy years old when he became the father of Mahalalel .
13 And after the birth of Mahalalel , Kenan went on living for eight hundred and forty years , and had sons and daughters .
14 And all the years of Kenan 's life were nine hundred and ten ; and he came to his end .
15 And Mahalalel was sixty - five years old when he became the father of Jared .
16 And after the birth of Jared , Mahalalel went on living for eight hundred and thirty years , and had sons and daughters .
17 And all the years of Mahalalel 's life were eight hundred and ninety - five : and he came to his end .
18 And Jared was a hundred and sixty - two years old when he became the father of Enoch .
19 And Jared went on living after the birth of Enoch for eight hundred years , and had sons and daughters .
20 And all the years of Jared 's life were nine hundred and sixty - two : and he came to his end .
21 And Enoch was sixty - five years old when he became the father of Methuselah .
22 And after the birth of Methuselah , Enoch went on in God 's ways for three hundred years , and had sons and daughters .
23 And all the years of Enoch 's life were three hundred and sixty - five .
24 And Enoch went on in God 's ways : and he was not seen again , for God took him .
25 And Methuselah was a hundred and eighty - seven years old when he became the father of Lamech .
26 And after the birth of Lamech , Methuselah went on living for seven hundred and eighty - two years , and had sons and daughters :
27 And all the years of Methuselah 's life were nine hundred and sixty - nine : and he came to his end .
28 And Lamech was a hundred and eighty - two years old when he had a son .
29 And he gave him the name of Noah , saying , Truly , he will give us rest from our trouble and the hard work of our hands , because of the earth which was cursed by God .
30 And after the birth of Noah , Lamech went on living for five hundred and ninety - five years , and had sons and daughters .
31 And all the years of Lamech 's life were seven hundred and seventy - seven : and he came to his end .
32 And when Noah was five hundred years old , he became the father of Shem , Ham , and Japheth .
Genesis 6
1 And after a time , when men were increasing on the earth , and had daughters .
2 The sons of God saw that the daughters of men were fair ; and they took wives for themselves from those who were pleasing to them .
3 And the Lord said , My spirit will not be in man for ever , for he is only flesh ; so the days of his life will be a hundred and twenty years .
4 There were men of great strength and size on the earth in those days ; and after that , when the sons of God had connection with the daughters of men , they gave birth to children : these were the great men of old days , the men of great name .
5 And the Lord saw that the sin of man was great on the earth , and that all the thoughts of his heart were evil .
6 And the Lord had sorrow because he had made man on the earth , and grief was in his heart .
7 And the Lord said , I will take away man , whom I have made , from the face of the earth , even man and beast and that which goes on the earth and every bird of the air ; for I have sorrow for having made them .
8 But Noah had grace in the eyes of God .
9 These are the generations of Noah , Noah was an upright man and without sin in his generation : he went in the ways of God .
10 And Noah had three sons , Shem , Ham , and Japheth .
11 And the earth was evil in God 's eyes and full of violent ways .
12 And God , looking on the earth , saw that it was evil : for the way of all flesh had become evil on the earth .
13 And God said to Noah , The end of all flesh has come ; the earth is full of their violent doings , and now I will put an end to them with the earth .
14 Make for yourself an ark of gopher wood with rooms in it , and make it safe from the water inside and out .
15 And this is the way you are to make it : it is to be three hundred cubits long , fifty cubits wide , and thirty cubits high .
16 You are to put a window in the ark , a cubit from the roof , and a door in the side of it , and you are to make it with a lower and second and third floors .
17 For truly , I will send a great flow of waters over the earth , for the destruction from under the heaven of all flesh in which is the breath of life ; everything on the earth will come to an end .
18 But with you I will make an agreement ; and you will come into the ark , you and your sons and your wife and your sons ' wives with you .
19 And you will take with you into the ark two of every sort of living thing , and keep them safe with you ; they will be male and female .
20 Two of every sort of bird and cattle and of every sort of living thing which goes on the earth will you take with you to keep them from destruction .
21 And make a store of every sort of food for yourself and them .
22 And all these things Noah did ; as God said , so he did .
Genesis 7
1 And the Lord said to Noah , Take all your family and go into the ark , for you only in this generation have I seen to be upright .
2 - 4 Of every clean beast you will take seven males and seven females , and of the beasts which are not clean , two , the male and his female ,and of the birds of the air , seven males and seven females , so that their seed may still be living on the face of the earth , for after seven days I will send rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights , for the destruction of every living thing which I have made on the face of the earth .
5 And Noah did everything which the Lord said he was to do .
6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the waters came flowing over all the earth .
7 And Noah , with his sons and his wife and his sons ' wives , went into the ark because of the flowing of the waters .
8 Of clean beasts , and of beasts which are not clean , and of birds , and of everything which goes on the earth .
9 In twos , male and female , they went into the ark with Noah , as God had said .
10 And after the seven days , the waters came over all the earth .
11 In the six hundredth year of Noah 's life , in the second month , on the seventeenth day of the month , all the fountains of the great deep came bursting through , and the windows of heaven were open .
12 And rain came down on the earth for forty days and forty nights .
13 On the same day Noah , with Shem , Ham , and Japheth , his sons , and his wife and his sons ' wives , went into the ark ;
14 And with them , every sort of beast and cattle , and every sort of thing which goes on the earth , and every sort of bird .
15 They went with Noah into the ark , two and two of all flesh in which is the breath of life .
16 Male and female of all flesh went in , as God had said , and the ark was shut by the Lord .
17 And for forty days the waters were over all the earth ; and the waters were increased so that the ark was lifted up high over the earth .
18 And the waters overcame everything and were increased greatly on the earth , and the ark was resting on the face of the waters .
19 And the waters overcame everything on the earth ; and all the mountains under heaven were covered .
20 The waters went fifteen cubits higher , till all the mountains were covered .
21 And destruction came on every living thing moving on the earth , birds and cattle and beasts and everything which went on the earth , and every man .
22 Everything on the dry land , in which was the breath of life , came to its end .
23 Every living thing on the face of all the earth , man and cattle and things moving on the face of the earth , and birds of the air , came to destruction : only Noah and those who were with him in the ark , were kept from death .
24 And the waters were over the earth a hundred and fifty days .
Genesis 8
1 And God kept Noah in mind , and all the living things and the cattle which were with him in the ark : and God sent a wind over the earth , and the waters went down .
2 And the fountains of the deep and the windows of heaven were shut , and the rain from heaven was stopped .
3 And the waters went slowly back from the earth , and at the end of a hundred and fifty days the waters were lower .
4 And on the seventeenth day of the seventh month the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat .
5 And still the waters went on falling , till on the first day of the tenth month the tops of the mountains were seen .
6 Then , after forty days , through the open window of the ark which he had made .
7 Noah sent out a raven , which went this way and that till the waters were gone from the earth .
8 And he sent out a dove , to see if the waters had gone from the face of the earth .
9 But the dove saw no resting - place for her foot , and came back to the ark , for the waters were still over all the earth ; and he put out his hand , and took her into the ark .
10 And after waiting another seven days , he sent the dove out again .
11 And the dove came back at evening , and in her mouth was an olive - leaf broken off : so Noah was certain that the waters had gone down on the earth .
12 And after seven days more , he sent the dove out again , but she did not come back to him .
13 And in the six hundred and first year , on the first day of the first month , the waters were dry on the earth : and Noah took the cover off the ark and saw that the face of the earth was dry .
14 And on the twenty - seventh day of the second month the earth was dry .
15 And God said to Noah ,
16 Go out of the ark , you and your wife and your sons and your sons ' wives .
17 Take out with you every living thing which is with you , birds and cattle and everything which goes on the earth , so that they may have offspring and be fertile and be increased on the earth .
18 And Noah went out with his sons and his wife and his sons ' wives .
19 And every beast and bird and every living thing of every sort which goes on the earth , went out of the ark .
20 And Noah made an altar to the Lord , and from every clean beast and bird he made burned offerings on the altar .
21 And when the sweet smell came up to the Lord , he said in his heart , I will not again put a curse on the earth because of man , for the thoughts of man 's heart are evil from his earliest days ; never again will I send destruction on all living things as I have done .
22 While the earth goes on , seed time and the getting in of the grain , cold and heat , summer and winter , day and night , will not come to an end .
Genesis 9
1 And God gave his blessing to Noah and his sons , and said , Be fertile , and have increase , and make the earth full .
2 And the fear of you will be strong in every beast of the earth and every bird of the air ; everything which goes on the land , and all the fishes of the sea , are given into your hands .
3 Every living and moving thing will be food for you ; I give them all to you as before I gave you all green things .
4 But flesh with the life-blood in it you may not take for food .
5 And for your blood , which is your life , will I take payment ; from every beast I will take it , and from every man will I take payment for the blood of his brother - man .
6 Whoever takes a man 's life , by man will his life be taken ; because God made man in his image .
7 And now , be fertile and have increase ; have offspring on the earth and become great in number .
8 And God said to Noah and to his sons .
9 - 10 Truly , I will make my agreement with you and with your seed after you , and with every living thing with you , all birds and cattle and every beast of the earth which comes out of the ark with you .
11 And I will make my agreement with you ; never again will all flesh be cut off by the waters ; never again will the waters come over all the earth for its destruction .
12 And God said , This is the sign of the agreement which I make between me and you and every living thing with you , for all future generations .
13 I will put my bow in the cloud and it will be for a sign of the agreement between me and the earth .
14 And whenever I make a cloud come over the earth , the bow will be seen in the cloud .
15 And I will keep in mind the agreement between me and you and every living thing ; and never again will there be a great flow of waters causing destruction to all flesh .
16 And the bow will be in the cloud , and looking on it , I will keep in mind the eternal agreement between God and every living thing on the earth .
17 And God said to Noah , This is the sign of the agreement which I have made between me and all flesh on the earth .
18 And the sons of Noah who went out of the ark were Shem , Ham , and Japheth ; and Ham is the father of Canaan .
19 These three were the sons of Noah and from them all the earth was peopled .
20 In those days Noah became a farmer , and he made a vine - garden .
21 And he took of the wine of it and was overcome by drink ; and he was uncovered in his tent .
22 And Ham , the father of Canaan , saw his father unclothed , and gave news of it to his two brothers outside .
23 And Shem and Japheth took a robe , and putting it on their backs went in with their faces turned away , and put it over their father so that they might not see him unclothed .
24 And , awaking from his wine , Noah saw what his youngest son had done to him , and he said ,
25 Cursed be Canaan ; let him be a servant of servants to his brothers .
26 And he said , Praise to the Lord , the God of Shem ; let Canaan be his servant .
27 May God make Japheth great , and let his living - place be in the tents of Shem , and let Canaan be his servant .
28 And Noah went on living three hundred and fifty years after the great flow of waters .
29 all the years of his life were nine hundred and fifty : and he came to his end .
Genesis 10
1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah , Shem , Ham , and Japheth : these are the sons which they had after the great flow of waters .
2 The sons of Japheth : Gomer and Magog and Madai and Javan and Tubal and Meshech and Tiras .
3 And the sons of Gomer : Ashkenaz and Riphath and Togarmah .
4 And the sons of Javan : Elishah and Tarshish , the Kittim and the Dodanim .
5 From these came the nations of the sea - lands , with their different families and languages .
6 And the sons of Ham : Cush and Mizraim and Put and Canaan .
7 And the sons of Cush : Seba and Havilah and Sabtah and Raamah and Sabteca ; and the sons of Raamah : Sheba and Dedan .
8 And Cush was the father of Nimrod , who was the first of the great men of the earth .
9 He was a very great bowman , so that there is a saying , Like Nimrod , a very great bowman .
10 And at the first , his kingdom was Babel and Erech and Accad and Calneh , in the land of Shinar .
11 From that land he went out into Assyria , building Nineveh with its wide streets and Calah .
12 And Resen between Nineveh and Calah , which is a very great town .
13 - 14 And Mizraim was the father of the Ludim and Anamim and Lehabim and Naphtuhim , and Pathrusim and Casluhim and Caphtorim , from whom came the Philistines .
15 And Canaan was the father of Zidon , who was his oldest son , and Heth .
16 And the Jebusite and the Amorite and the Girgashite .
17 And the Hivite and the Arkite and the Sinite .
18 And the Arvadite and the Zemarite and the Hamathite ; after that the families of the Canaanites went far and wide in all directions ;
19 Their country stretching from Zidon to Gaza , in the direction of Gerar ; and to Lasha , in the direction of Sodom and Gomorrah and Admah and Zeboiim .
20 All these , with their different families , languages , lands , and nations , are the offspring of Ham .
21 And Shem , the older brother of Japheth , the father of the children of Eber , had other sons in addition .
22 These are the sons of Shem : Elam and Asshur and Arpachshad and Lud and Aram .
23 And the sons of Aram : Uz and Hul and Gether and Mash .
24 And Arpachshad became the father of Shelah ; and Shelah became the father of Eber .
25 And Eber had two sons : the name of the one was Peleg , because in his time the peoples of the earth became separate ; and his brother 's name was Joktan .
26 And Joktan was the father of Almodad and Sheleph and Hazarmaveth and Jerah .
27 And Hadoram and Uzal and Diklah .
28 And Obal and Abimael and Sheba .
29 And Ophir and Havilah and Jobab ; all these were the sons of Joktan .
30 And their country was from Mesha , in the direction of Sephar , the mountain of the east .
31 These , with their families and their languages and their lands and their nations , are the offspring of Shem .
32 These are the families of the sons of Noah , in the order of their generations and their nations : from these came all the nations of the earth after the great flow of waters .
Genesis 11
1 And all the earth had one language and one tongue .
2 And it came about that in their wandering from the east , they came to a stretch of flat country in the land of Shinar , and there they made their living - place .
3 And they said one to another , Come , let us make bricks , burning them well ; and they had bricks for stone , putting them together with sticky earth .
4 And they said , Come , let us make a town , and a tower whose top will go up as high as heaven ; and let us make a great name for ourselves , so that we may not be wanderers over the face of the earth .
5 And the Lord came down to see the town and the tower which the children of men were building .
6 And the Lord said , See , they are all one people and have all one language ; and this is only the start of what they may do : and now it will not be possible to keep them from any purpose of theirs .
7 Come , let us go down and take away the sense of their language , so that they will not be able to make themselves clear to one another .
8 So the Lord God sent them away into every part of the earth : and they gave up building their town .
9 So it was named Babel , because there the Lord took away the sense of all languages and from there the Lord sent them away over all the face of the earth .
10 These are the generations of Shem ; Shem was a hundred years old when he became the father of Arpachshad , two years after the great flow of waters .
11 And after the birth of Arpachshad , Shem went on living for five hundred years , and had sons and daughters .
12 And Arpachshad was thirty-five years old when he became the father of Shelah .
13 And after the birth of Shelah , Arpachshad went on living for four hundred and three years , and had sons and daughters .
14 And Shelah was thirty years old when he became the father of Eber .
15 And after the birth of Eber , Shelah went on living for four hundred and three years , and had sons and daughters .
16 And Eber was thirty - four years old when he became the father of Peleg .
17 And after the birth of Peleg , Eber went on living for four hundred and thirty years , and had sons and daughters .
18 And Peleg was thirty years old when he became the father of Reu .
19 And after the birth of Reu , Peleg went on living for two hundred and nine years , and had sons and daughters .
20 And Reu was thirty - two years old when he became the father of Serug .
21 And after the birth of Serug , Reu went on living for two hundred and seven years , and had sons and daughters .
22 And Serug was thirty years old when he became the father of Nahor .
23 And after the birth of Nahor , Serug went on living for two hundred years , and had sons and daughters .
24 And Nahor was twenty - nine years old when he became the father of Terah .
25 And after the birth of Terah , Nahor went on living for a hundred and nineteen years , and had sons and daughters .
26 And Terah was seventy years old when he became the father of Abram , Nahor , and Haran .
27 These are the generations of Terah : Terah was the father of Abram , Nahor , and Haran ; and Haran was the father of Lot .
28 And death came to Haran when he was with his father Terah in the land of his birth , Ur of the Chaldees .
29 And Abram and Nahor took wives for themselves : the name of Abram 's wife was Sarai , and the name of Nahor 's wife was Milcah , the daughter of Haran , the father of Milcah and Iscah .
30 And Sarai had no child .
31 And Terah took Abram , his son , and Lot , the son of Haran , and Sarai , his daughter - in - law , the wife of his son Abram and they went out from Ur of the Chaldees , to go to the land of Canaan ; and they came to Haran , and were there for some time .
32 And all the years of Terah 's life were two hundred and five : and Terah came to his end in Haran .
Genesis 12
1 Now the Lord said to Abram , Go out from your country and from your family and from your father 's house , into the land to which I will be your guide .
2 And I will make of you a great nation , blessing you and making your name great ; and you will be a blessing .
3 To them who are good to you will I give blessing , and on him who does you wrong will I put my curse : and you will become a name of blessing to all the families of the earth .
4 So Abram went as the Lord had said to him , and Lot went with him : Abram was seventy - five years old when he went away from Haran .
5 And Abram took Sarai , his wife , and Lot , his brother 's son , and all their goods and the servants which they had got in Haran , and they went out to go to the land of Canaan .
6 And Abram went through the land till he came to Shechem , to the holy tree of Moreh ; at that time , the Canaanites were still living in the land .
7 And the Lord came to Abram , and said , I will give all this land to your seed ; then Abram made an altar there to the Lord who had let himself be seen by him .
8 And moving on from there to the mountain on the east of Beth - el , he put up his tent , having Beth - el on the west and Ai on the east : and there he made an altar and gave worship to the name of the Lord .
9 And he went on , journeying still to the South .
10 And because there was little food to be had in that land , he went down into Egypt .
11 Now when he came near to Egypt , he said to Sarai , his wife , Truly , you are a fair woman and beautiful to the eye .
12 And I am certain that when the men of Egypt see you , they will say , This is his wife : and they will put me to death and keep you .
13 Say , then , that you are my sister , and so it will be well with me because of you , and my life will be kept safe on your account .
14 And so it was that when Abram came into Egypt , the men of Egypt , looking on the woman , saw that she was fair .
15 And Pharaoh 's great men , having seen her , said words in praise of her to Pharaoh , and she was taken into Pharaoh 's house .
16 And because of her , he was good to Abram , and he had sheep and oxen and asses , and men - servants and women - servants , and camels .
17 And the Lord sent great troubles on Pharaoh 's house because of Sarai , Abram 's wife .
18 Then Pharaoh sent for Abram , and said , What have you done to me ? why did you not say that she was your wife ?
19 Why did you say that she was your sister ? so that I took her for my wife : now , take your wife and go on your way .
20 And Pharaoh gave orders to his men , and they sent him on his way , with his wife and all he had .
Genesis 13
1 And Abram went up out of Egypt with his wife and all he had , and Lot with him , and they came in to the South .
2 Now Abram had great wealth of cattle and silver and gold .
3 - 4 And travelling on from the South , he came to Beth - el , to the place where his tent had been before , between Beth - el and Ai ; to the place where he had made his first altar , and there Abram gave worship to the name of the Lord .
5 And Lot , who went with him , had flocks and herds and tents .
6 So that the land was not wide enough for the two of them : their property was so great that there was not room for them together .
7 And there was an argument between the keepers of Abram 's cattle and the keepers of Lot 's cattle : at that time the Canaanites and Perizzites were still living in the land .
8 Then Abram said to Lot , Let there be no argument between me and you , and between my herdmen and your herdmen , for we are brothers .
9 Is not all the land before you ? then let us go our separate ways : if you go to the left , I will go to the right ; or if you take the right , I will go to the left .
10 And Lot , lifting up his eyes and looking an the valley of Jordan , saw that it was well watered everywhere , before the Lord had sent destruction on Sodom and Gomorrah ; it was like the garden of the Lord , like the land of Egypt , on the way to Zoar .
11 So Lot took for himself all the valley of Jordan , and went to the east , and they were parted from one another .
12 Abram went on living in the land of Canaan , and Lot went to the lowland towns , moving his tent as far as Sodom .
13 Now the men of Sodom were evil , and great sinners before the Lord .
14 And the Lord had said to Abram , after Lot was parted from him , From this place where you are take a look to the north and to the south , to the east and to the west .
15 For all the land which you see I will give to you and to your seed for ever .
16 And I will make your children like the dust of the earth , so that if the dust of the earth may be numbered , then will your children be numbered .
17 Come , go through all the land from one end to the other for I will give it to you .
18 And Abram , moving his tent , came and made his living - place by the holy tree of Mamre , which is in Hebron , and made an altar there to the Lord .
Genesis 14
1 Now in the days of Amraphel , king of Shinar , Arioch , king of Ellasar , Chedorlaomer , king of Elam , and Tidal , king of Goiim ,
2 They made war with Bera , king of Sodom , and with Birsha , king of Gomorrah , Shinab , king of Admah , and Shemeber , king of Zeboiim , and the king of Bela ( which is Zoar ) .
3 All these came together in the valley of Siddim ( which is the Salt Sea ) .
4 For twelve years they were under the rule of Chedorlaomer , but in the thirteenth year they put off his control .
5 And in the fourteenth year , Chedorlaomer and the kings who were on his side , overcame the Rephaim in Ashteroth - karnaim , and the Zuzim in Ham , and the Emim in Shaveh - kiriathaim .
6 And the Horites in their mountain Seir , driving them as far as El - paran , which is near the waste land .
7 Then they came back to En - mishpat ( which is Kadesh ) , making waste all the country of the Amalekites and of the Amorites living in Hazazon - tamar .
8 - 9 And the king of Sodom with the king of Gomorrah and the king of Admah and the king of Zeboiim and the king of Bela ( that is Zoar ) , went out , and put their forces in position in the valley of Siddim ; against Chedorlaomer , king of Elam , and Tidal , king of Goiim , and Amraphel , king of Shinar , and Arioch , king of Ellasar : four kings against the five .
10 Now the valley of Siddim was full of holes of sticky earth ; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah were put to flight and came to their end there , but the rest got away to the mountain .
11 And the four kings took all the goods and food from Sodom and Gomorrah and went on their way .
12 And in addition they took Lot , Abram 's brother 's son , who was living in Sodom , and all his goods .
13 And one who had got away from the fight came and gave word of it to Abram the Hebrew , who was living by the holy tree of Mamre , the Amorite , the brother of Eshcol and Aner , who were friends of Abram .
14 And Abram , hearing that his brother 's son had been made a prisoner , took a band of his trained men , three hundred and eighteen of them , sons of his house , and went after them as far as Dan .
15 And separating his forces by night , he overcame them , putting them to flight and going after them as far as Hobah , which is on the north side of Damascus .
16 And he got back all the goods , and Lot , his brother 's son , with his goods and the women and the people .
17 And when he was coming back after putting to flight Chedorlaomer and the other kings , he had a meeting with the king of Sodom in the valley of Shaveh , that is , the King 's Valley .
18 And Melchizedek , king of Salem , the priest of the Most High God , took bread and wine .
19 And blessing him , said , May the blessing of the Most High God , maker of heaven and earth , be on Abram :
20 And let the Most High God be praised , who has given into your hands those who were against you ; then Abram gave him a tenth of all the goods he had taken .
21 And the king of Sodom said to Abram , Give me the prisoners and take the goods for yourself .
22 But Abram said to the king of Sodom , I have taken an oath to the Lord , the Most High God , maker of heaven and earth .
23 - 24 That I will not take so much as a thread or the cord of a shoe of yours ; so that you may not say , I have given wealth to Abram ; give me nothing but the food which the fighting - men who went with me have had ; but let Aner and Eshcol and Mamre have their part of the goods .
Genesis 15
1 After these things , the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision , saying , Have no fear , Abram : I will keep you safe , and great will be your reward .
2 And Abram said , What will you give me ? for I have no child and this Eliezer of Damascus will have all my wealth after me .
3 And Abram said , You have given me no child , and a servant in my house will get the heritage .
4 Then said the Lord , This man will not get the heritage , but a son of your body will have your property after you .
5 And he took him out into the open air , and said to him , Let your eyes be lifted to heaven , and see if the stars may be numbered ; even so will your seed be .
6 And he had faith in the Lord , and it was put to his account as righteousness .
7 And he said to him , I am the Lord , who took you from Ur of the Chaldees , to give you this land for your heritage .
8 And he said , O Lord God , how may I be certain that it will be mine ?
9 And he said , Take a young cow of three years old , and a she - goat of three years old , and a sheep of three years old , and a dove and a young pigeon .
10 All these he took , cutting them in two and putting one half opposite the other , but not cutting the birds in two .
11 And evil birds came down on the bodies , but Abram sent them away .
12 Now when the sun was going down , a deep sleep came on Abram , and a dark cloud of fear .
13 And he said to Abram , Truly , your seed will be living in a land which is not theirs , as servants to a people who will be cruel to them for four hundred years .
14 But I will be the judge of that nation whose servants they are , and they will come out from among them with great wealth .
15 As for you , you will go to your fathers in peace ; at the end of a long life you will be put in your last resting-place .
16 And in the fourth generation they will come back here ; for at present the sin of the Amorite is not full .
17 Then when the sun went down and it was dark , he saw a smoking fire and a flaming light which went between the parts of the bodies .
18 In that day the Lord made an agreement with Abram , and said , To your seed have I given this land from the river of Egypt to the great river , the river Euphrates .
19 The Kenite , the Kenizzite , and the Kadmonite .
20 And the Hittite , and the Perizzite , and the Rephaim .
21 And the Amorite , and the Canaanite , and the Girgashite , and the Jebusite .
Genesis 16
1 Now Sarai , Abram 's wife , had given him no children ; and she had a servant , a woman of Egypt whose name was Hagar .
2 And Sarai said to Abram , See , the Lord has not let me have children ; go in to my servant , for I may get a family through her , and Abram did as Sarai said .
3 So after Abram had been living for ten years in the land of Canaan , Sarai took Hagar , her Egyptian servant , and gave her to Abram for his wife .
4 And he went in to Hagar and she became with child , and when she saw that she was with child , she no longer had any respect for her master 's wife .
5 And Sarai said to Abram , May my wrong be on you : I gave you my servant for your wife and when she saw that she was with child , she no longer had any respect for me : may the Lord be judge between you and me .
6 And Abram said , The woman is in your power ; do with her whatever seems good to you , and Sarai was cruel to her , so that she went running away from her .
7 And an angel of the Lord came to her by a fountain of water in the waste land , by the fountain on the way to Shur .
8 And he said , Hagar , Sarai 's servant , where have you come from and where are you going ?
And she said , I am running away from Sarai , my master 's wife .
9 And the angel said to her , Go back , and put yourself under her authority .
10 And the angel of the Lord said , Your seed will be greatly increased so that it may not be numbered .
11 And the angel of the Lord said , See , you are with child and will give birth to a son , to whom you will give the name Ishmael , because the ears of the Lord were open to your sorrow .
12 And he will be like a mountain ass among men ; his hand will be against every man and every man 's hand against him , and he will keep his place against all his brothers .
13 And to the Lord who was talking with her she gave this name , You are a God who is seen ; for she said , Have I not even here in the waste land had a vision of God and am still living ?
14 So that fountain was named , Fountain of Life and Vision : it is between Kadesh and Bered .
15 And Hagar gave birth to a child , the son of Abram , to whom Abram gave the name of Ishmael .
16 Abram was eighty - six years old when Hagar gave birth to Ishmael .
Genesis 17
1 When Abram was ninety - nine years old , the Lord came to him , and said , I am God , Ruler of all ; go in my ways and be upright in all things .
2 And I will make an agreement between you and me , and your offspring will be greatly increased .
3 And Abram went down on his face on the earth , and the Lord God went on talking with him , and said ,
4 As for me , my agreement is made with you , and you will be the father of nations without end .
5 No longer will your name be Abram , but Abraham , for I have made you the father of a number of nations .
6 I will make you very fertile , so that nations will come from you and kings will be your offspring .
7 And I will make between me and you and your seed after you through all generations , an eternal agreement to be a God to you and to your seed after you .
8 And to you and to your seed after you , I will give the land in which you are living , all the land of Canaan for an eternal heritage ; and I will be their God .
9 And God said to Abraham , On your side , you are to keep the agreement , you and your seed after you through all generations .
10 And this is the agreement which you are to keep with me , you and your seed after you : every male among you is to undergo circumcision .
11 In the flesh of your private parts you are to undergo it , as a mark of the agreement between me and you .
12 Every male among you , from one generation to another , is to undergo circumcision when he is eight days old , with every servant whose birth takes place in your house , or for whom you gave money to someone of another country , and not of your seed .
13 He who comes to birth in your house and he who is made yours for a price , all are to undergo circumcision ; so that my agreement may be marked in your flesh , an agreement for all time .
14 And any male who does not undergo circumcision will be cut off from his people : my agreement has been broken by him .
15 And God said , As for Sarai , your wife , from now her name will be not Sarai , but Sarah .
16 And I will give her a blessing so that you will have a son by her : truly my blessing will be on her , and she will be the mother of nations : kings of peoples will be her offspring .
17 Then Abraham went down on his face , and laughing , said in his heart , May a man a hundred years old have a child ? will Sarah , at ninety years old , give birth ?
18 And Abraham said to God , If only Ishmael 's life might be your care !
19 And God said , Not so ; but Sarah , your wife , will have a son , and you will give him the name Isaac , and I will make my agreement with him for ever and with his seed after him .
20 As for Ishmael , I have given ear to your prayer : truly I have given him my blessing and I will make him fertile and give him great increase ; he will be the father of twelve chiefs , and I will make him a great nation .
21 But my agreement will be with Isaac , to whom Sarah will give birth a year from this time .
22 And having said these words , God went up from Abraham .
23 And Abraham took Ishmael , his son , and all whose birth had taken place in his house , and all his servants whom he had made his for a price , every male of his house , and on that very day he gave them circumcision in the flesh of their private parts as God had said to him .
24 Abraham was ninety - nine years old when he underwent circumcision .
25 And Ishmael , his son , was thirteen years old when he underwent circumcision .
26 Abraham and Ishmael , his son , underwent circumcision on that very day .
27 And all the men of his house , those whose birth had taken place in the house and those whom he had got for money from men of other lands , underwent circumcision with him .
Genesis 18
1 Now the Lord came to him by the holy tree of Mamre , when he was seated in the doorway of his tent in the middle of the day ;
2 And lifting up his eyes , he saw three men before him ; and seeing them , he went quickly to them from the door of the tent , and went down on his face to the earth ;
3 And said , My Lord , if now I have grace in your eyes , do not go away from your servant .
4 Let me get water for washing your feet , and take your rest under the tree .
5 And let me get a bit of bread to keep up your strength , and after that you may go on your way : for this is why you have come to your servant ; and they said , Let it be so .
6 Then Abraham went quickly into the tent , and said to Sarah , Get three measures of meal straight away and make cakes .
7 And running to the herd , he took a young ox , soft and fat , and gave it to the servant and he quickly made it ready .
8 And he took butter and milk and the young ox which he had made ready and put it before them , waiting by them under the tree while they took food .
9 And they said to him , Where is Sarah your wife ? And he said , She is in the tent .
10 And he said , I will certainly come back to you in the spring , and Sarah your wife will have a son ; and his words came to the ears of Sarah who was at the back of the tent - door .
11 Now Abraham and Sarah were very old , and Sarah was past the time for giving birth .
12 And Sarah , laughing to herself , said , Now that I am used up am I still to have pleasure , my husband himself being old ?
13 And the Lord said , Why was Sarah laughing and saying , Is it possible for me , being old , to give birth to a child ?
14 Is there any wonder which the Lord is not able to do ? At the time I said , in the spring , I will come back to you , and Sarah will have a child .
15 Then Sarah said , I was not laughing ; for she was full of fear ; And he said , No , but you were laughing .
16 And the men went on from there in the direction of Sodom ; and Abraham went with them on their way .
17 And the Lord said , Am I to keep back from Abraham the knowledge of what I do .
18 Seeing that Abraham will certainly become a great and strong nation , and his name will be used by all the nations of the earth as a blessing ?
19 For I have made him mine so that he may give orders to his children and those of his line after him , to keep the ways of the Lord , to do what is good and right : so that the Lord may do to Abraham as he has said .
20 And the Lord said , Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is very great , and their sin is very evil .
21 I will go down now , and see if their acts are as bad as they seem from the outcry which has come to me ; and if they are not , I will see .
22 And the men , turning from that place , went on to Sodom : but Abraham was still waiting before the Lord .
23 And Abraham came near , and said , Will you let destruction come on the upright with the sinners ?
24 If by chance there are fifty upright men in the town , will you give the place to destruction and not have mercy on it because of the fifty upright men ?
25 Let such a thing be far from you , to put the upright to death with the sinner : will not the judge of all the earth do right ?
26 And the Lord said , If there are fifty upright men in the town , I will have mercy on it because of them .
27 And Abraham answering said , Truly , I who am only dust , have undertaken to put my thoughts before the Lord :
28 If by chance there are five less than fifty upright men , will you give up all the town to destruction because of these five ? And he said , I will not give it to destruction if there are forty - five .
29 And again he said to him , By chance there may be forty there ; And he said , I will not do it if there are forty .
30 And he said , Let not the Lord be angry with me if I say , What if there are thirty there ? And he said , I will not do it if there are thirty .
31 And he said , See now , I have undertaken to put my thoughts before the Lord : what if there are twenty there ? And he said , I will have mercy because of the twenty .
32 And he said , O let not the Lord be angry and I will say only one word more : by chance there may be ten there ; And he said , I will have mercy because of the ten .
33 And the Lord went on his way when his talk with Abraham was ended , and Abraham went back to his place .
Genesis 19
1 And at nightfall the two angels came to Sodom ; and Lot was seated at the way into the town : and when he saw them he got up and came before them , falling down on his face to the earth .
2 And he said , My masters , come now into your servant 's house and take your rest there for the night , and let your feet be washed ; and early in the morning you may go on your way ; And they said , Not so , but we will take our night 's rest in the street .
3 But he made his request more strongly , so they went with him into his house ; and he got food ready for them , and made unleavened bread , of which they took .
4 But before they had gone to bed , the men of the town , all the men of Sodom , came round the house , young and old , from every part of the town .
5 And crying out to Lot , they said , Where are the men who came to your house this night ? Send them out to us , so that we may take our pleasure with them .
6 And Lot went out to them in the doorway , shutting the door after him .
7 And he said , My brothers , do not this evil .
8 See now , I have two unmarried daughters ; I will send them out to you so that you may do to them whatever seems good to you : only do nothing to these men , for this is why they have come under the shade of my roof .
9 And they said , Give way there ; this one man , they said , came here from a strange country , and will he now be our judge ? now we will do worse to you than to them ; and pushing violently against Lot , they came near to get the door broken in .
10 But the men put out their hands and took Lot into the house to them , shutting the door again .
11 But the men who were outside the door they made blind , all of them , small and great , so that they were tired out with looking for the door .
12 Then the men said to Lot , Are there any others of your family here ? sons - in - law or sons or daughters , take them all out of this place .
13 For we are about to send destruction on this place , because a great outcry against them has come to the ears of the Lord ; and the Lord has sent us to put an end to the town .
14 And Lot went out and said to his sons - in - law , who were married to his daughters , Come , let us go out of this place , for the Lord is about to send destruction on the town ; but his sons - in - law did not take him seriously .
15 And when morning came , the angels did all in their power to make Lot go , saying , Get up quickly and take your wife and your two daughters who are here , and go , for fear that you come to destruction in the punishment of the town .
16 But while he was waiting , the men took him and his wife and his daughters by the hand , for the Lord had mercy on them , and put them outside the town .
17 And when they had put them out , he said , Go for your life , without looking back or waiting in the lowland ; go quickly to the mountain or you will come to destruction .
18 And Lot said to them , Not so , O my Lord ;
19 See now , your servant has had grace in your eyes and great is your mercy in keeping my life from destruction , but I am not able to get as far as the mountain before evil overtakes me and death .
20 This town , now , is near , and it is a little one : O , let me go there ( is it not a little one ? ) so that my life may be safe .
21 And he said , See , I have given you your request in this one thing more : I will not send destruction on this town .
22 Go there quickly , for I am not able to do anything till you have come there ; For this reason , the town was named Zoar .
23 The sun was up when Lot came to Zoar .
24 Then the Lord sent fire and flaming smoke raining down from heaven on Sodom and Gomorrah .
25 And he sent destruction on those towns , with all the lowland and all the people of those towns and every green thing in the land .
26 But Lot 's wife , looking back , became a pillar of salt .
27 And Abraham got up early in the morning and went to the place where he had been talking with the Lord :
28 And looking in the direction of Sodom and Gomorrah and the lowland , he saw the smoke of the land going up like the smoke of an oven .
29 So it came about that when God sent destruction on the towns of the lowland , he kept his word to Abraham , and sent Lot safely away when he put an end to the towns where he was living .
30 Then Lot went up out of Zoar to the mountain , and was living there with his two daughters , for fear kept him from living in Zoar : and he and his daughters made their living-place in a hole in the rock .
31 And the older daughter said to her sister , Our father is old , and there is no man to be a husband to us in the natural way :
32 Come , let us give our father much wine , and we will go into his bed , so that we may have offspring by our father ,
33 And that night they made their father take much wine ; and the older daughter went into his bed ; and he had no knowledge of when she went in or when she went away .
34 And on the day after , the older daughter said to the younger , Last night I was with my father ; let us make him take much wine this night again , and do you go to him , so that we may have offspring by our father .
35 And that night again they made their father take much wine ; and the younger daughter went into his bed ; and he had no knowledge of when she went in or when she went away .
36 And so the two daughters of Lot were with child by their father .
37 And the older daughter had a son , and she gave him the name Moab : he is the father of the Moabites to this day .
38 And the younger had a son and gave him the name Ben - ammi : from him come the children of Ammon to this day .
Genesis 20
1 And Abraham went on his way from there to the land of the South , and was living between Kadesh and Shur , in Gerar .
2 And Abraham said of Sarah , his wife , She is my sister : and Abimelech , king of Gerar , sent and took Sarah .
3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream in the night , and said to him , Truly you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken ; for she is a man 's wife .
4 Now Abimelech had not come near her ; and he said , Lord , will you put to death an upright nation ?
5 Did he not say to me himself , She is my sister ? and she herself said , He is my brother : with an upright heart and clean hands have I done this .
6 And God said to him in the dream , I see that you have done this with an upright heart , and I have kept you from sinning against me : for this reason I did not let you come near her .
7 So now , give the man back his wife , for he is a prophet , and let him say a prayer for you , so your life may be safe : but if you do not give her back , be certain that death will come to you and all your house .
8 So Abimelech got up early in the morning and sent for all his servants and gave them word of these things , and they were full of fear .
9 Then Abimelech sent for Abraham , and said , What have you done to us ? what wrong have I done you that you have put on me and on my kingdom so great a sin ? You have done to me things which are not to be done .
10 And Abimelech said to Abraham , Why did you do this thing ?
11 And Abraham said , Because it seemed to me that there was no fear of God in this place , and that they might put me to death because of my wife .
12 And , in fact , she is my sister , the daughter of my father , but not the daughter of my mother ; and she became my wife :
13 And when God sent me wandering from my father 's house , I said to her , Let this be the sign of your love for me ; wherever we go , say of me , He is my brother .
14 Then Abimelech gave to Abraham sheep and oxen and men - servants and women - servants , and gave him back his wife Sarah .
15 And Abimelech said , See , all my land is before you ; take whatever place seems good to you .
16 And he said to Sarah , See , I have given to your brother a thousand bits of silver so that your wrong may be put right ; now your honour is clear in the eyes of all .
17 - 18 Then Abraham made prayer to God , and God made Abimelech well again , and his wife and his women-servants , so that they had children , for the Lord had kept all the women of the house of Abimelech from having children , because of Sarah , Abraham 's wife .
Genesis 21
1 And the Lord came to Sarah as he had said and did to her as he had undertaken .
2 And Sarah became with child , and gave Abraham a son when he was old , at the time named by God .
3 And Abraham gave to his son , to whom Sarah had given birth , the name Isaac .
4 And when his son Isaac was eight days old , Abraham made him undergo circumcision , as God had said to him .
5 Now Abraham was a hundred years old when the birth of Isaac took place .
6 And Sarah said , God has given me cause for laughing , and everyone who has news of it will be laughing with me .
7 And she said , Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would have a child at her breast ? for see , I have given him a son now when he is old .
8 And when the child was old enough to be taken from the breast , Abraham made a great feast .
9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian playing with Isaac .
10 So she said to Abraham , Send away that woman and her son : for the son of that woman is not to have a part in the heritage with my son Isaac .
11 And this was a great grief to Abraham because of his son .
12 But God said , Let it not be a grief to you because of the boy and Hagar his mother ; give ear to whatever Sarah says to you , because it is from Isaac that your seed will take its name .
13 And I will make a nation of the son of your servant - woman , because he is your seed .
14 And early in the morning Abraham got up , and gave Hagar some bread and a water - skin , and put the boy on her back , and sent her away : and she went , wandering in the waste land of Beer - sheba .
15 And when all the water in the skin was used up , she put the child down under a tree .
16 And she went some distance away , about an arrow flight , and seating herself on the earth , she gave way to bitter weeping , saying , Let me not see the death of my child .
17 And the boy 's cry came to the ears of God ; and the angel of God said to Hagar from heaven , Hagar , why are you weeping ? have no fear , for the child 's cry has come to the ears of God .
18 Come , take your child in your arms , for I will make of him a great nation .
19 Then God made her eyes open , and she saw a water - spring , and she got water in the skin and gave the boy a drink .
20 And God was with the boy , and he became tall and strong , and he became a bowman , living in the waste land .
21 And while he was in the waste land of Paran , his mother got him a wife from the land of Egypt .
22 Now at that time , Abimelech and Phicol , the captain of his army , said to Abraham , I see that God is with you in all you do .
23 Now , then , give me your oath , in the name of God , that you will not be false to me or to my sons after me , but that as I have been good to you , so you will be to me and to this land where you have been living .
24 And Abraham said , I will give you my oath .
25 But Abraham made a protest to Abimelech because of a water - hole which Abimelech 's servants had taken by force .
26 But Abimelech said , I have no idea who has done this thing ; you never gave me word of it , and I had no knowledge of it till this day .
27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech , and the two of them made an agreement together .
28 And Abraham put seven young lambs of the flock on one side by themselves .
29 Then Abimelech said , What are these seven lambs which you have put on one side ?
30 And he said , Take these seven lambs from me as a witness that I have made this water - hole .
31 So he gave that place the name Beer - sheba , because there the two of them had given their oaths .
32 So they made an agreement at Beer - sheba , and Abimelech and Phicol , the captain of his army , went back to the land of the Philistines .
33 And Abraham , after planting a holy tree in Beer - sheba , gave worship to the name of the Lord , the Eternal God .
34 And Abraham went on living in the land of the Philistines as in a strange country .
Genesis 22
1 Now after these things , God put Abraham to the test , and said to him , Abraham ; and he said , Here am I .
2 And he said to him , Take your son , your dearly loved only son Isaac , and go to the land of Moriah and give him as a burned offering on one of the mountains of which I will give you knowledge .
3 And Abraham got up early in the morning , and made ready his ass , and took with him two of his young men and Isaac , his son , and after the wood for the burned offering had been cut , he went on his way to the place of which God had given him word .
4 And on the third day , Abraham , lifting up his eyes , saw the place a long way off .
5 Then he said to his young men , Keep here with the ass ; and I and the boy will go on and give worship and come back again to you .
6 And Abraham put the wood for the burned offering on his son 's back , and he himself took the fire and the knife in his hand , and the two of them went on together .
7 Then Isaac said to Abraham , My father ; and he said , Here am I , my son , and he said , We have wood and fire here , but where is the lamb for the burned offering ?
8 And Abraham said , God himself will give the lamb for the burned offering : so they went on together .
9 And they came to the place of which God had given him knowledge ; and there Abraham made the altar and put the wood in place on it , and having made tight the bands round Isaac his son , he put him on the wood on the altar .
10 And stretching out his hand , Abraham took the knife to put his son to death .
11 But the voice of the angel of the Lord came from heaven , saying , Abraham , Abraham : and he said , Here am I .
12 And he said , Let not your hand be stretched out against the boy to do anything to him ; for now I am certain that the fear of God is in your heart , because you have not kept back your son , your only son , from me .
13 And lifting up his eyes , Abraham saw a sheep fixed by its horns in the brushwood : and Abraham took the sheep and made a burned offering of it in place of his son .
14 And Abraham gave that place the name Yahweh - yireh : as it is said to this day , In the mountain the Lord is seen .
15 And the voice of the angel of the Lord came to Abraham a second time from heaven .
16 Saying , I have taken an oath by my name , says the Lord , because you have done this and have not kept back from me your dearly loved only son .
17 That I will certainly give you my blessing , and your seed will be increased like the stars of heaven and the sand by the seaside ; your seed will take the land of those who are against them .
18 And your seed will be a blessing to all the nations of the earth , because you have done what I gave you orders to do .
19 Then Abraham went back to his young men and they went together to Beer - sheba , the place where Abraham was living .
20 After these things , Abraham had news that Milcah , the wife of his brother Nahor , had given birth to children .
21 Uz the oldest , and Buz his brother , and Kemuel , the father of Aram .
22 And Chesed and Hazo and Pildash and Jidlaph and Bethuel .
23 Bethuel was the father of Rebekah : these eight were the children of Milcah and Nahor , Abraham 's brother .
24 And his servant Reumah gave birth to Tebah and Gaham and Tahash and Maacah .
Genesis 23
1 Now the years of Sarah 's life were a hundred and twenty - seven .
2 And Sarah 's death took place in Kiriath - arba , that is , Hebron , in the land of Canaan : and Abraham went into his house , weeping and sorrowing for Sarah .
3 And Abraham came from his dead and said to the children of Heth .
4 I am living among you as one from a strange country : give me some land here as my property , so that I may put my dead to rest .
5 And in answer the children of Heth said to Abraham .
6 My lord , truly you are a great chief among us ; take the best of our resting - places for your dead ; not one of us will keep back from you a place where you may put your dead to rest .
7 And Abraham got up and gave honour to the children of Heth , the people of that land .
8 - 9 And he said to them , If you will let me put my dead to rest here , make a request for me to Ephron , the son of Zohar , that he will give me the hollow in the rock named Machpelah , which is his property at the end of his field ; let him give it to me for its full price as a resting - place for my dead among you .
10 Now Ephron was seated among the children of Heth : and Ephron the Hittite gave Abraham his answer in the hearing of the children of Heth , and of all those who came into his town , saying .
11 No , my lord , I will give you the field with the hollow in the rock ; before all the children of my people will I give it to you for a resting - place for your dead .
12 And Abraham went down on his face before the people of the land .
13 And Abraham said to Ephron , in the hearing of the people of the land , If only you will give ear to me , I will give you the price of the field ; take it , and let me put my dead to rest there .
14 So Ephron said to Abraham .
15 My lord , give ear to me : the value of the land is four hundred shekels ; what is that between me and you ? so put your dead to rest there .
16 And Abraham took note of the price fixed by Ephron in the hearing of the children of Heth , and gave him four hundred shekels in current money .
17 So Ephron 's field at Machpelah near Mamre , with the hollow in the rock and all the trees in the field and round it .
18 Became the property of Abraham before the eyes of the children of Heth and of all who came into the town .
19 Then Abraham put Sarah his wife to rest in the hollow rock in the field of Machpelah near Mamre , that is , Hebron in the land of Canaan .
20 And the field and the hollow rock were handed over to Abraham as his property by the children of Heth .
Genesis 24
1 Now Abraham was old and far on in years : and the Lord had given him everything in full measure .
2 And Abraham said to his chief servant , the manager of all his property , Come now , put your hand under my leg :
3 And take an oath by the Lord , the God of heaven and the God of the earth , that you will not get a wife for my son Isaac from the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I am living .
4 But that you will go into my country and to my relations and get a wife there for my son Isaac .
5 And the servant said , If by chance the woman will not come with me into this land , am I to take your son back again to the land from which you came ?
6 And Abraham said , Take care that you do not let my son go back to that land .
7 The Lord God of heaven , who took me from my father 's house and from the land of my birth , and made an oath to me , saying , To your seed I will give this land : he will send his angel before you and give you a wife for my son in that land .
8 And if the woman will not come with you , then you are free from this oath ; only do not take my son back there .
9 And the servant put his hand under Abraham 's leg , and gave him his oath about this thing .
10 And the servant took ten of his master 's camels , and all sorts of good things of his master 's , and went to Mesopotamia , to the town of Nahor .
11 And he made the camels take their rest outside the town by the water - spring in the evening , at the time when the women came to get water .
12 And he said , O Lord , the God of my master Abraham , let me do well in what I have undertaken this day , and give your mercy to my master Abraham .
13 See , I am waiting here by the water - spring ; and the daughters of the town are coming out to get water :
14 Now , may the girl to whom I say , Let down your vessel and give me a drink , and who says in answer , Here is a drink for you and let me give water to your camels : may she be the one marked out by you for your servant Isaac : so may I be certain that you have been good to my master Abraham .
15 And even before his words were ended , Rebekah , the daughter of Bethuel , the son of Milcah , who was the wife of Nahor , Abraham 's brother , came out with her water - vessel on her arm .
16 She was a very beautiful girl , a virgin , who had never been touched by a man : and she went down to the spring to get water in her vessel .
17 And the servant came running to her and said , Give me a little water from your vessel .
18 And she said , Take a drink , my lord : and quickly letting down her vessel onto her hand , she gave him a drink .
19 And having done so , she said , I will get water for your camels till they have had enough .
20 And after putting the water from her vessel into the animals ' drinking - place , she went quickly back to the spring and got water for all the camels .
21 And the man , looking at her , said nothing , waiting to see if the Lord had given his journey a good outcome .
22 And when the camels had had enough , the man took a gold nose - ring , half a shekel in weight , and two ornaments for her arms of ten shekels weight of gold .
23 And said to her , Whose daughter are you ? is there room in your father 's house for us ?
24 And she said to him , I am the daughter of Bethuel , the son of Milcah , Nahor 's wife .
25 And she said , We have a great store of dry grass and cattle - food , and there is room for you .
26 And with bent head the man gave worship to the Lord .
27 And said , Praise be to the Lord , the God of my master Abraham , who has given a sign that he is good and true to my master , by guiding me straight to the house of my master 's family .
28 So the girl went running and took the news of these things to her mother 's house .
29 Now Rebekah had a brother named Laban , and he came out quickly to the man at the water - spring .
30 And when he saw the nose - ring and the ornaments on his sister 's hands , and when she gave him word of what the man had said to her , then he went out to the man who was waiting with the camels by the water - spring .
31 And he said to him , Come in , you on whom is the blessing of the Lord ; why are you waiting outside ? for I have made the house ready for you , and a place for the camels .
32 Then the man came into the house , and Laban took their cords off the camels and gave them dry grass and food , and he gave to him and the men who were with him water for washing their feet .
33 And meat was put before him , but he said , I will not take food till I have made my business clear to you ; and they said , Do so .
34 And he said , I am Abraham 's servant .
35 The Lord has given my master every blessing , and he has become great : he has given him flocks and herds and silver and gold , and men - servants and women - servants and camels and asses .
36 And when Sarah , my master 's wife , was old , she gave birth to a son , to whom he has given all he has .
37 And my master made me take an oath , saying , Do not get a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I am living .
38 But go to my father 's house and to my relations for a wife for my son .
39 And I said to my master , What if the woman will not come with me ?
40 And he said , The Lord , whom I have ever kept before me , will send his angel with you , who will make it possible for you to get a wife for my son from my relations and my father 's house ;
41 And you will be free from your oath to me when you come to my people ; and if they will not give her to you , you will be free from your oath .
42 And I came today to the water - spring , and I said , O Lord , the God of my master Abraham , if it is your purpose to give a good outcome to my journey .
43 Let it come about that , while I am waiting here by the water - spring , if a girl comes to get water and I say to her , Give me a little water from your vessel , and she says .
44 Take a drink , and I will get water for your camels ; let her be the woman marked out by the Lord for my master 's son .
45 And even while I was saying this to myself , Rebekah came out with her vessel on her arm ; and she went down to the spring to get water ; and I said to her , Give me a drink .
46 And straight away she took down her vessel from her arm , and said , Take a drink , and I will get water for your camels .
47 And questioning her , I said , Whose daughter are you ? And she said , The daughter of Bethuel , the son of Nahor , and Milcah his wife , then I put the ring on her nose and the ornaments on her hands .
48 And with bent head I gave worship and praise to the Lord , the God of my master Abraham , by whom I had been guided in the right way , to get the daughter of my master 's brother for his son .
49 And now , say if you will do what is good and right for my master or not , in order that it may be clear to me what I have to do .
50 Then Laban and Bethuel said in answer , This is the Lord 's doing : it is not for us to say Yes or No to you .
51 See , here is Rebekah : take her and go , and let her be your master 's son 's wife , as the Lord has said .
52 And at these words , Abraham 's servant went down on his face and gave praise to the Lord .
53 Then he took jewels of silver and jewels of gold and fair robes and gave them to Rebekah : and he gave things of value to her mother and her brother .
54 Then he and the men who were with him had food and drink , and took their rest there that night ; and in the morning he got up , and said , Let me now go back to my master .
55 But her brother and her mother said , Let the girl be with us a week or ten days , and then she may go .
56 And he said , Do not keep me ; the Lord has given a good outcome to my journey ; let me now go back to my master .
57 And they said , We will send for the girl , and let her make the decision .
58 And they sent for Rebekah and said to her , Are you ready to go with this man ? And she said , I am ready .
59 So they sent their sister Rebekah and her servant with Abraham 's servant and his men .
60 And they gave Rebekah their blessing , saying , O sister , may you be the mother of thousands and ten thousands ; and may your seed overcome all those who make war against them .
61 So Rebekah and her servant - women went with the man , seated on the camels ; and so the servant took Rebekah and went on his way .
62 Now Isaac had come through the waste land to Beer - lahai - roi ; for he was living in the South .
63 And when the evening was near , he went wandering out into the fields , and lifting up his eyes he saw camels coming .
64 And when Rebekah , looking up , saw Isaac , she got down from her camel .
65 And said to the servant , Who is that man coming to us through the field ? And the servant said , It is my master : then she took her veil , covering her face with it .
66 Then the servant gave Isaac the story of all he had done .
67 And Isaac took Rebekah into his tent and she became his wife ; and in his love for her , Isaac was comforted after his father 's death .
Genesis 25
1 And Abraham took another wife named Keturah .
2 She became the mother of Zimran and Jokshan and Medan and Midian and Ishbak and Shuah .
3 And Jokshan became the father of Sheba and Dedan , and from Dedan came the Asshurim and Letushim and Leummim .
4 And from Midian came Ephah and Epher and Hanoch and Abida and Eldaah , all these were the offspring of Keturah .
5 Now Abraham gave all his property to Isaac .
6 But to the sons of his other women he gave offerings , and sent them away , while he was still living , into the east country .
7 Now the years of Abraham 's life were a hundred and seventy - five .
8 And Abraham came to his death , an old man , full of years ; and he was put to rest with his people .
9 And Isaac and Ishmael , his sons , put him to rest in the hollow rock of Machpelah , in the field of Ephron , the son of Zohar the Hittite , near Mamre .
10 The same field which Abraham got from the children of Heth : there Abraham was put to rest with Sarah , his wife .
11 Now after the death of Abraham , the blessing of God was with Isaac , his son .
12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael , the son of Abraham , whose mother was Hagar the Egyptian , the servant of Sarah .
13 These are the names of the sons of Ishmael by their generations : Ishmael 's first son was Nebaioth ; then Kedar and Adbeel and Mibsam .
14 And Mishma and Dumah and Massa .
15 Hadad and Tema , Jetur , Naphish , and Kedemah .
16 These are the sons of Ishmael , and these are their names in their towns and their tent - circles ; twelve chiefs with their peoples .
17 And the years of Ishmael 's life were a hundred and thirty - seven : and he came to his end , and was put to rest with his people .
18 And their country was from Havilah to Shur which is east of Egypt : they took their place to the east of all their brothers .
19 Now these are the generations of Abraham 's son Isaac .
20 Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah , the daughter of Bethuel the Aramaean of Paddan - aram , and the sister of Laban the Aramaean , to be his wife .
21 Isaac made prayer to the Lord for his wife because she had no children ; and the Lord gave ear to his prayer , and Rebekah became with child .
22 And the children were fighting together inside her , and she said , If it is to be so , why am I like this ; So she went to put her question to the Lord .
23 And the Lord said to her , Two nations are in your body , and two peoples will come to birth from you : the one will be stronger than the other , and the older will be the servant of the younger .
24 And when the time came for her to give birth , there were two children in her body .
25 And the first came out red from head to foot like a robe of hair , and they gave him the name of Esau .
26 And after him , his brother came out , gripping Esau 's foot ; and he was named Jacob : Isaac was sixty years old when she gave birth to them .
27 And the boys came to full growth ; and Esau became a man of the open country , an expert bowman ; but Jacob was a quiet man , living in tents .
28 Now Isaac 's love was for Esau , because Esau 's meat was greatly to his taste : but Rebekah had more love for Jacob .
29 And one day Jacob was cooking some soup when Esau came in from the fields in great need of food ;
30 And Esau said to Jacob , Give me a full meal of that red soup , for I am overcome with need for food : for this reason he was named Edom .
31 And Jacob said , First of all give me your birthright .
32 And Esau said , Truly , I am at the point of death : what profit is the birthright to me ?
33 And Jacob said , First of all give me your oath ; and he gave him his oath , handing over his birthright to Jacob .
34 Then Jacob gave him bread and soup ; and he took food and drink and went away , caring little for his birthright .
Genesis 26
1 Then came a time of great need in the land , like that which had been before in the days of Abraham , and Isaac went to Abimelech , king of the Philistines , at Gerar .
2 And the Lord came to him in a vision and said , Do not go down to Egypt ; keep in the land of which I will give you knowledge :
3 Keep in this land , and I will be with you and give you my blessing ; for to you and to your seed will I give all these lands , giving effect to the oath which I made to your father Abraham ;
4 - 5 I will make your seed like the stars of heaven in number , and will give them all these lands , and your seed will be a blessing to all the nations of the earth ; because Abraham gave ear to my voice and kept my words , my rules , my orders , and my laws .
6 So Isaac went on living in Gerar .
7 And when he was questioned by the men of the place about his wife , he said , She is my sister ; fearing to say , She is my wife ; for , he said , the men of the place may put me to death on account of Rebekah ; because she is very beautiful .
8 And when he had been there for some time , Abimelech , king of the Philistines , looking through a window , saw Isaac playing with Rebekah his wife .
9 And he said to Isaac , It is clear that she is your wife : why then did you say , She is my sister , And Isaac said , For fear that I might be put to death because of her .
10 Then Abimelech said , What have you done to us , one of the people might well have had connection with your wife , and the sin would have been ours .
11 And Abimelech gave orders to his people that anyone touching Isaac or his wife was to be put to death .
12 Now Isaac , planting seed in that land , got in the same year fruit a hundred times as much , for the blessing of the Lord was on him .
13 And his wealth became very great , increasing more and more .
14 For he had great wealth of flocks and herds and great numbers of servants ; so that the Philistines were full of envy .
15 Now all the water - holes , which his father 's servants had made in the days of Abraham , had been stopped up with earth by the Philistines .
16 And Abimelech said to Isaac , Go away from us , for you are stronger than we are .
17 So Isaac went away from there , and put up his tents in the valley of Gerar , making his living - place there .
18 And he made again the water - holes which had been made in the days of Abraham his father , and which had been stopped up by the Philistines ; and he gave them the names which his father had given them .
19 Now Isaac 's servants made holes in the valley , and came to a spring of flowing water .
20 But the herdmen of Gerar had a fight with Isaac 's herdmen , for they said , The spring is ours : so he gave the spring the name of Esek , because there was a fight about it .
21 Then they made another water - hole , and there was a fight about that , so he gave it the name of Sitnah .
22 Then he went away from there , and made another water - hole , about which there was no fighting : so he gave it the name of Rehoboth , for he said , Now the Lord has made room for us , and we will have fruit in this land .
23 And from there he went on to Beer - sheba .
24 That night the Lord came to him in a vision , and said , I am the God of your father Abraham : have no fear for I am with you , blessing you , and your seed will be increased because of my servant Abraham .
25 Then he made an altar there , and gave worship to the name of the Lord , and he put up his tents there , and there his servants made a water - hole .
26 And Abimelech had come to him from Gerar , with Ahuzzath his friend and Phicol , the captain of his army .
27 And Isaac said to them , Why have you come to me , seeing that in your hate for me you sent me away from you ?
28 - 29 And they said , We saw clearly that the Lord was with you : so we said , Let there be an oath between us and you , and let us make an agreement with you ; that you will do us no damage , even as we put no hand on you , and did you nothing but good , and sent you away in peace : and now the blessing of the Lord is on you .
30 Then he made a feast for them , and they all had food and drink .
31 And early in the morning they took an oath one to the other : then Isaac sent them away and they went on their way in peace .
32 And that day Isaac 's servants came to him and gave him word of the water - hole which they had made , and said to him , We have come to water .
33 And he gave it the name of Shibah : so the name of that town is Beer - sheba to this day .
34 And when Esau was forty years old , he took as his wives Judith , the daughter of Beeri the Hittite , and Basemath , the daughter of Elon the Hittite .
35 And Isaac and Rebekah had grief of mind because of them .
Genesis 27
1 Now when Isaac was old and his eyes had become clouded so that he was not able to see , he sent for Esau , his first son , and said to him , My son : and he said , Here am I .
2 And he said , See now , I am old , and my death may take place at any time .
3 So take your arrows and your bow and go out to the field and get meat for me .
4 And make me food , good to the taste , such as is pleasing to me , and put it before me , so that I may have a meal and give you my blessing before death comes to me .
5 Now Isaac 's words to his son were said in Rebekah 's hearing , then Esau went out to get the meat .
6 - 7 And Rebekah said to Jacob , her son , Your father said to your brother Esau in my hearing , go and get some roe 's meat and make me a good meal , so that I may be full , and give you my blessing before the Lord before my death .
8 Now , my son , do what I say .
9 Go to the flock and get me two fat young goats ; and I will make of them a meal to your father 's taste .
10 And you will take it to him , so that he may have a good meal and give you his blessing before his death .
11 And Jacob said to Rebekah , his mother , but Esau my brother is covered with hair , while I am smooth .
12 If by chance my father puts his hand on me , it will seem to him that I am tricking him , and he will put a curse on me in place of a blessing .
13 And his mother said , Let the curse be on me , my son : only do as I say , and go and get them for me .
14 So he went and got them and took them to his mother : and she made a meal to his father 's taste .
15 And Rebekah took the fair robes of her oldest son , which were with her in the house , and put them on Jacob , her younger son .
16 And she put the skins of the young goats on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck .
17 And she gave into the hand of Jacob , her son , the meat and the bread which she had made ready .
18 And he came to his father , and said , My father : and he said , Here am I : who are you , my son ?
19 And Jacob said , I am Esau , your oldest son ; I have done as you said : come now , be seated and take of my meat , so that you may give me a blessing .
20 And Isaac said , How is it that you have got it so quickly , my son , and he said , because the Lord your God made it come my way .
21 And Isaac said , Come near so that I may put my hand on you , my son , and see if you are truly my son Esau or not .
22 And Jacob went near his father Isaac : and he put his hands on him ; and he said , The voice is Jacob 's voice , but the hands are the hands of Esau .
23 And he did not make out who he was , because his hands were covered with hair like his brother Esau 's hands : so he gave him a blessing .
24 And he said , Are you truly my son Esau ? And he said , I am .
25 And he said , Put it before me and I will take of my son 's meat , so that I may give you a blessing , and he put it before him and he took it ; and he gave him wine , and he had a drink .
26 And his father Isaac said to him , Come near now , my son , and give me a kiss .
27 And he came near and gave him a kiss ; and smelling the smell of his clothing , he gave him a blessing , and said , See , the smell of my son is like the smell of a field on which the blessing of the Lord has come .
28 May God give you the dew of heaven , and the good things of the earth , and grain and wine in full measure .
29 Let peoples be your servants , and nations go down before you : be lord over your brothers , and let your mother 's sons go down before you : a curse be on everyone by whom you are cursed , and a blessing on those who give you a blessing .
30 And when Isaac had come to the end of blessing Jacob , and Jacob had not long gone away from Isaac his father , Esau came in from the field .
31 And he made ready a meal , good to the taste , and took it to his father , and said to him , Let my father get up and take of his son 's meat , so that you may give me a blessing .
32 And Isaac his father said to him , Who are you ? And he said , I am your oldest son , Esau .
33 And in great fear Isaac said , Who then is he who got meat and put it before me , and I took it all before you came , and gave him a blessing , and his it will be ?
34 And hearing the words of his father , Esau gave a great and bitter cry , and said to his father , Give a blessing to me , even to me , O my father !
35 And he said , Your brother came with deceit , and took away your blessing .
36 And he said , Is it because he is named Jacob that he has twice taken my place ? for he took away my birthright , and now he has taken away my blessing , and he said , Have you not kept a blessing for me ?
37 And Isaac answering said , But I have made him your master , and have given him all his brothers for servants ; I have made him strong with grain and wine : what then am I to do for you , my son ?
38 And Esau said to his father , Is that the only blessing you have , my father ? give a blessing to me , even me ! And Esau was overcome with weeping .
39 Then Isaac his father made answer and said to him , Far from the fertile places of the earth , and far from the dew of heaven on high will your living - place be .
40 By your sword will you get your living and you will be your brother 's servant ; but when your power is increased his yoke will be broken from off your neck .
41 So Esau was full of hate for Jacob because of his father 's blessing ; and he said in his heart , The days of weeping for my father are near ; then I will put my brother Jacob to death .
42 Then Rebekah , hearing what Esau had said , sent for Jacob , her younger son , and said to him , It seems that your brother Esau is purposing to put you to death .
43 So now , my son , do what I say : go quickly to Haran , to my brother Laban .
44 - 45 And be there with him for a little time , till your brother 's wrath is turned away ; till the memory of what you have done to him is past and he is no longer angry : then I will send word for you to come back ; are the two of you to be taken from me in one day ?
46 Then Rebekah said to Isaac , My life is a weariness to me because of the daughters of Heth : if Jacob takes a wife from among the daughters of Heth , such as these , the women of this land , of what use will my life be to me ?
Genesis 28
1 Then Isaac sent for Jacob , and blessing him , said , Do not take a wife from among the women of Canaan .
2 But go to Paddan - aram , to the house of Bethuel , your mother 's father , and there get yourself a wife from the daughters of Laban , your mother 's brother .
3 And may God , the Ruler of all , give you his blessing , giving you fruit and increase , so that you may become an army of peoples .
4 And may God give you the blessing of Abraham , to you and to your seed , so that the land of your wanderings , which God gave to Abraham , may be your heritage .
5 So Isaac sent Jacob away : and he went to Paddan - aram , to Laban , son of Bethuel the Aramaean , the brother of Rebekah , the mother of Jacob and Esau .
6 So when Esau saw that Isaac had given Jacob his blessing , and sent him away to Paddan - aram to get a wife for himself there , blessing him and saying to him , Do not take a wife from among the women of Canaan .
7 And that Jacob had done as his father and mother said and had gone to Paddan - aram .
8 It was clear to Esau that his father had no love for the women of Canaan .
9 So Esau went to Ishmael and took Mahalath , the daughter of Abraham 's son Ishmael , the sister of Nebaioth , to be his wife in addition to the wives he had .
10 So Jacob went out from Beer - sheba to go to Haran .
11 And coming to a certain place , he made it his resting - place for the night , for the sun had gone down ; and he took one of the stones which were there , and putting it under his head he went to sleep in that place .
12 And he had a dream , and in his dream he saw steps stretching from earth to heaven , and the angels of God were going up and down on them .
13 And he saw the Lord by his side , saying , I am the Lord , the God of Abraham your father , and the God of Isaac : I will give to you and to your seed this land on which you are sleeping .
14 Your seed will be like the dust of the earth , covering all the land to the west and to the east , to the north and to the south : you and your seed will be a name of blessing to all the families of the earth .
15 And truly , I will be with you , and will keep you wherever you go , guiding you back again to this land ; and I will not give you up till I have done what I have said to you .
16 And Jacob , awaking from his sleep , said , Truly , the Lord is in this place and I was not conscious of it .
17 And fear came on him , and he said , This is a holy place ; this is nothing less than the house of God and the doorway of heaven .
18 And early in the morning Jacob took the stone which had been under his head , and put it up as a pillar and put oil on it .
19 And he gave that place the name of Beth - el , but before that time the town was named Luz .
20 Then Jacob took an oath , and said , If God will be with me , and keep me safe on my journey , and give me food and clothing to put on .
21 So that I come again to my father 's house in peace , then I will take the Lord to be my God .
22 And this stone which I have put up for a pillar will be God 's house : and of all you give me , I will give a tenth part to you .
Genesis 29
1 Then Jacob went on his journey till he came to the land of the children of the East .
2 And there he saw a water - hole in a field , and by the side of it three flocks of sheep , for there they got water for the sheep : and on the mouth of the water - hole there was a great stone .
3 And all the flocks would come together there , and when the stone had been rolled away , they would give the sheep water , and put the stone back again in its place on the mouth of the water - hole .
4 Then Jacob said to the herdmen , My brothers , where do you come from ? And they said , From Haran .
5 And he said to them , Have you any knowledge of Laban , the son of Nahor , And they said , We have .
6 And he said to them , Is he well , and they said , He is well , and here is Rachel his daughter coming with the sheep .
7 Then Jacob said , the sun is still high and it is not time to get the cattle together : get water for the sheep and go and give them their food .
8 And they said , We are not able to do so till all the flocks have come together and the stone has been rolled away from the mouth of the water - hole ; then we will get water for the sheep .
9 While he was still talking with them , Rachel came with her father 's sheep , for she took care of them .
10 Then when Jacob saw Rachel , the daughter of Laban , his mother 's brother , coming with Laban 's sheep , he came near , and rolling the stone away from the mouth of the hole , he got water for Laban 's flock .
11 And weeping for joy , Jacob gave Rachel a kiss .
12 And Rachel , hearing from Jacob that he was her father 's relation and that he was the son of Rebekah , went running to give her father news of it .
13 And Laban , hearing news of Jacob , his sister 's son , came running , and took Jacob in his arms , and kissing him , made him come into his house , and Jacob gave him news of everything .
14 And Laban said to him , truly , you are my bone and my flesh , and he kept Jacob with him for the space of a month .
15 Then Laban said to Jacob , Because you are my brother are you to be my servant for nothing , say now , what is your payment to be ?
16 Now Laban had two daughters : the name of the older was Leah , and the name of the younger was Rachel .
17 And Leah 's eyes were clouded , but Rachel was fair in face and form .
18 And Jacob was in love with Rachel ; and he said , I will be your servant seven years for Rachel , your younger daughter .
19 And Laban said , it is better for you to have her than another man : go on living here with me .
20 And Jacob did seven years ' work for Rachel ; and because of his love for her it seemed to him only a very little time .
21 Then Jacob said to Laban , Give me my wife so that I may have her , for the days are ended .
22 And Laban got together all the men of the place and gave a feast .
23 And in the evening he took Leah , his daughter , and gave her to him , and he went in to her .
24 And Laban gave Zilpah , his servant - girl , to Leah , to be her waiting - woman .
25 And in the morning Jacob saw that it was Leah : and he said to Laban , What have you done to me , was I not working for you so that I might have Rachel , why have you been false to me ?
26 And Laban said , in our country we do not let the younger daughter be married before the older .
27 Let the week of the bride - feast come to its end and then we will give you the other in addition , if you will be my servant for another seven years .
28 And Jacob did so ; and when the week was ended , Laban gave him his daughter Rachel for his wife .
29 And Laban gave Rachel his servant - girl Bilhah to be her waiting - woman .
30 Then Jacob took Rachel as his wife , and his love for her was greater than his love for Leah ; and he went on working for Laban for another seven years .
31 Now the Lord , seeing that Leah was not loved , gave her a child ; while Rachel had no children .
32 And Leah was with child , and gave birth to a son to whom she gave the name Reuben : for she said , the Lord has seen my sorrow ; now my husband will have love for me .
33 Then she became with child again , and gave birth to a son ; and said , Because it has come to the Lord 's ears that I am not loved , he has given me this son in addition : and she gave him the name Simeon .
34 And she was with child again , and gave birth to a son ; and said , Now at last my husband will be united to me , because I have given him three sons : so he was named Levi .
35 And she was with child again , and gave birth to a son : and she said , this time I will give praise to the Lord : so he was named Judah ; after this she had no more children for a time .
Genesis 30
1 Now Rachel , because she had no children , was full of envy of her sister ; and she said to Jacob , If you do not give me children I will not go on living .
2 But Jacob was angry with Rachel , and said , Am I in the place of God , who has kept your body from having fruit ?
3 Then she said , Here is my servant Bilhah , go in to her , so that she may have a child on my knees , and I may have a family by her .
4 So she gave him her servant Bilhah as a wife , and Jacob went in to her .
5 And Bilhah became with child , and gave birth to a son .
6 Then Rachel said , God has been my judge , and has given ear to my voice , and has given me a son ; so he was named Dan .
7 And again Bilhah , Rachel 's servant , was with child , and gave birth to a second son .
8 And Rachel said , I have had a great fight with my sister , and I have overcome her : and she gave the child the name Naphtali .
9 When it was clear to Leah that she would have no more children for a time , she gave Zilpah , her servant , to Jacob as a wife .
10 And Zilpah , Leah 's servant , gave birth to a son .
11 And Leah said , It has gone well for me : and she gave him the name Gad .
12 And Zilpah , Leah 's servant , gave birth to a second son .
13 And Leah said , Happy am I ! and all women will give witness to my joy : and she gave him the name Asher .
14 Now at the time of the grain - cutting , Reuben saw some love - fruits in the field , and took them to his mother Leah , and Rachel said to her , Let me have some of your son 's love - fruits .
15 But Leah said to her , is it a small thing that you have taken my husband from me , and now would you take my son 's love - fruits , then Rachel said , You may have him tonight in exchange for your son 's love - fruits .
16 In the evening , when Jacob came in from the field , Leah went out to him and said , Tonight you are to come to me , for I have given my son 's love - fruits as a price for you , and he went in to her that night .
17 And God gave ear to her and she became with child , and gave Jacob a fifth son .
18 Then Leah said , God has made payment to me for giving my servant - girl to my husband : so she gave her son the name Issachar .
19 And again Leah became with child , and she gave Jacob a sixth son .
20 And she said , God has given me a good bride - price ; now at last will I have my husband living with me , for I have given him six sons : and she gave him the name Zebulun .
21 After that she had a daughter , to whom she gave the name Dinah .
22 Then God gave thought to Rachel , and hearing her prayer he made her fertile .
23 And she was with child , and gave birth to a son : and she said , God has taken away my shame .
24 And she gave him the name Joseph , saying , May the Lord give me another son .
25 Now after the birth of Joseph , Jacob said to Laban , Let me go away to my place and my country .
26 Give me my wives and my children , for whom I have been your servant , and let me go : for you have knowledge of all the work I have done for you .
27 And Laban said , if you will let me say so , do not go away ; for I have seen by the signs that the Lord has been good to me because of you .
28 Say then what your payment is to be and I will give it .
29 Then Jacob said , You have seen what I have done for you , and how your cattle have done well under my care .
30 For before I came you had little , and it has been greatly increased ; and the Lord has given you a blessing in everything I have done ; but when am I to do something for my family ?
31 And Laban said , What am I to give you ? And Jacob said , do not give me anything ; but I will again take up the care of your flock if you will only do this for me .
32 Let me go through all your flock today , taking out from among them all the sheep which are marked or coloured or black , and all the marked or coloured goats : these will be my payment .
33 And so you will be able to put my honour to the test in time to come ; if you see among my flocks any goats which are not marked or coloured , or any sheep which is not black , you may take me for a thief .
34 And Laban said , Let it be as you say .
35 So that day he took all the he - goats which were banded or coloured , and all the she - goats which were marked or coloured or had white marks , and all the black sheep , and gave them into the care of his sons .
36 And sent them three days ' journey away : and Jacob took care of the rest of Laban 's flock .
37 Then Jacob took young branches of trees , cutting off the skin so that the white wood was seen in bands .
38 And he put the banded sticks in the drinking - places where the flock came to get water ; and they became with young when they came to the water .
39 And because of this , the flock gave birth to young which were marked with bands of colour .
40 These lambs Jacob kept separate ; and he put his flock in a place by themselves and not with Laban 's flock .
41 And whenever the stronger ones of the flock became with young , Jacob put the sticks in front of them in the drinking - places , so that they might become with young when they saw the sticks .
42 But when the flocks were feeble , he did not put the sticks before them ; so that the feebler flocks were Laban 's and the stronger were Jacob 's .
43 So Jacob 's wealth was greatly increased ; he had great flocks and women - servants and men - servants and camels and asses .
Genesis 31
1 Now it came to the ears of Jacob that Laban 's sons were saying , Jacob has taken away all our father 's property , and in this way he has got all this wealth .
2 And Jacob saw that Laban 's feeling for him was no longer what it had been before .
3 Then the Lord said to Jacob , Go back to the land of your fathers , and to your relations , and I will be with you .
4 And Jacob sent for Rachel and Leah to come to him in the field among his flock .
5 And he said to them , It is clear to me that your father 's feeling is no longer what it was to me ; but the God of my father has been with me .
6 And you have seen how I have done all in my power for your father .
7 But your father has not kept faith with me , and ten times he has made changes in my payment ; but God has kept him from doing me damage .
8 If he said , All those in the flock which have marks are to be yours , then all the flock gave birth to marked young ; and if he said , all the banded ones are to be yours , then all the flock had banded young .
9 So God has taken away your father 's cattle and has given them to me .
10 And at the time when the flock were with young , I saw in a dream that all the he - goats which were joined with the she - goats were banded and marked and coloured .
11 And in my dream the angel of the Lord said to me , Jacob : and I said , here am I .
12 And he said , See how all the he - goats are banded and marked and coloured : for I have seen what Laban has done to you .
13 I am the God of Beth - el , where you put oil on the pillar and took an oath to me : now then , come out of this land and go back to the country of your birth .
14 Then Rachel and Leah said to him in answer , What part or heritage is there for us in our father 's house ?
15 Are we not as people from a strange country to him ? for he took a price for us and now it is all used up .
16 For the wealth which God has taken from him is ours and our children 's ; so now , whatever God has said to you , do .
17 Then Jacob put his wives and his sons on camels ;
18 And sending on before him all his cattle and his property which he had got together in Paddan - aram , he made ready to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan .
19 Now Laban had gone to see to the cutting of the wool of his sheep ; so Rachel secretly took the images of the gods of her father 's house .
20 And Jacob went away secretly , without giving news of his flight to Laban the Aramaean .
21 So he went away with all he had , and went across the River in the direction of the hill - country of Gilead .
22 And on the third day Laban had news of Jacob 's flight .
23 And taking the men of his family with him , he went after him for seven days and overtook him in the hill - country of Gilead .
24 Then God came to Laban in a dream by night , and said to him , Take care that you say nothing good or bad to Jacob .
25 Now when Laban overtook him , Jacob had put up his tent in the hill - country ; and Laban and his brothers put up their tents in the hill - country of Gilead .
26 And Laban said to Jacob , Why did you go away secretly , taking my daughters away like prisoners of war ?
27 Why did you make a secret of your flight , not giving me word of it , so that I might have sent you away with joy and songs , with melody and music ?
28 You did not even let me give a kiss to my sons and my daughters , this was a foolish thing to do .
29 It is in my power to do you damage : but the God of your father came to me this night , saying , Take care that you say nothing good or bad to Jacob .
30 And now , it seems , you are going because your heart 's desire is for your father 's house ; but why have you taken my gods ?
31 And Jacob , in answer , said to Laban , My fear was that you might take your daughters from me by force .
32 As for your gods , if anyone of us has them , let him be put to death : make search before us all for what is yours , and take it , For Jacob had no knowledge that Rachel had taken them .
33 So Laban went into Jacob 's tent and into Leah 's tent , and into the tents of the two servant - women , but they were not there ; and he came out of Leah 's tent and went into Rachel 's .
34 Now Rachel had taken the images , and had put them in the camels ' basket , and was seated on them , And Laban , searching through all the tent , did not come across them .
35 And she said to her father , Let not my lord be angry because I do not get up before you , for I am in the common condition of women , And with all his searching , he did not come across the images .
36 Then Jacob was angry with Laban , and said , What crime or sin have I done that you have come after me with such passion ?
37 Now that you have made search through all my goods , what have you seen which is yours ? Make it clear now before my people and your people , so that they may be judges between us .
38 These twenty years I have been with you ; your sheep and your goats have had young without loss , not one of your he - goats have I taken for food .
39 Anything which was wounded by beasts I did not take to you , but myself made up for the loss of it ; you made me responsible for whatever was taken by thieves , by day or by night .
40 This was my condition , wasted by heat in the day and by the bitter cold at night ; and sleep went from my eyes .
41 These twenty years I have been in your house ; I was your servant for fourteen years because of your daughters , and for six years I kept your flock , and ten times was my payment changed .
42 If the God of my father , the God of Abraham and the Fear of Isaac , had not been with me , you would have sent me away with nothing in my hands , but God has seen my troubles and the work of my hands , and this night he kept you back .
43 Then Laban , answering , said , These women are my daughters and these children my children , the flocks and all you see are mine : what now may I do for my daughters and for their children ?
44 Come , let us make an agreement , you and I ; and let it be for a witness between us .
45 Then Jacob took a stone and put it up as a pillar .
46 And Jacob said to his people , Get stones together ; and they did so ; and they had a meal there by the stones .
47 And the name Laban gave it was Jegar - sahadutha : but Jacob gave it the name of Galeed .
48 And Laban said , these stones are a witness between you and me today , For this reason its name was Galeed .
49 And Mizpah , for he said , May the Lord keep watch on us when we are unable to see one another 's doings .
50 If you are cruel to my daughters , or if you take other wives in addition to my daughters , then though no man is there to see , God will be the witness between us .
51 And Laban said , See these stones and this pillar which I have put between you and me .
52 They will be witness that I will not go over these stones to you , and you will not go over these stones or this pillar to me , for any evil purpose .
53 May the God of Abraham and the God of Nahor , the God of their father , be our judge , then Jacob took an oath by the Fear of his father Isaac .
54 And Jacob made an offering on the mountain , and gave orders to his people to take food : so they had a meal and took their rest that night on the mountain .
55 And early in the morning Laban , after kissing and blessing his daughters , went on his way back to his country .
Genesis 32
1 And on his way Jacob came face to face with the angels of God .
2 And when he saw them he said , This is the army of God : so he gave that place the name of Mahanaim .
3 Now Jacob sent servants before him to Esau , his brother , in the land of Seir , the country of Edom ;
4 And he gave them orders to say these words to Esau : Your servant Jacob says , Till now I have been living with Laban :
5 And I have oxen and asses and flocks and men - servants and women - servants : and I have sent to give my lord news of these things so that I may have grace in his eyes .
6 When the servants came back they said , We have seen your brother Esau and he is coming out to you , and four hundred men with him .
7 Then Jacob was in great fear and trouble of mind : and he put all the people and the flocks and the herds and the camels into two groups .
8 And said , If Esau , meeting one group , makes an attack on them , the others will get away safely .
9 Then Jacob said , O God of my father Abraham , the God of my father Isaac , the Lord who said to me , Go back to your country and your family and I will be good to you .
10 I am less than nothing in comparison with all your mercies and your faith to me your servant ; for with only my stick in my hand I went across Jordan , and now I have become two armies .
11 Be my saviour from the hand of Esau , my brother : for my fear is that he will make an attack on me , putting to death mother and child .
12 And you said , Truly , I will be good to you , and make your seed like the sand of the sea which may not be numbered .
13 Then he put up his tent there for the night ; and from among his goods he took , as an offering for his brother Esau .
14 Two hundred she - goats and twenty he - goats , two hundred females and twenty males from the sheep .
15 Thirty camels with their young ones , forty cows , ten oxen , twenty asses , and ten young asses .
16 These he gave to his servants , every herd by itself , and he said to his servants , Go on before me , and let there be a space between one herd and another .
17 And he gave orders to the first , saying , When my brother Esau comes to you and says , Whose servant are you , and where are you going , and whose are these herds ?
18 Then say to him , These are your servant Jacob 's ; they are an offering for my lord , for Esau ; and he himself is coming after us .
19 And he gave the same orders to the second and the third and to all those who were with the herds , saying , this is what you are to say to Esau when you see him .
20 And you are to say further , Jacob , your servant , is coming after us , For he said to himself , I will take away his wrath by the offering which I have sent on , and then I will come before him : it may be that I will have grace in his eyes .
21 So the servants with the offerings went on in front , and he himself took his rest that night in the tents with his people .
22 And in the night he got up , and taking with him his two wives and the two servant - women and his eleven children , he went over the river Jabbok .
23 He took them and sent them over the stream with all he had .
24 Then Jacob was by himself ; and a man was fighting with him till dawn .
25 But when the man saw that he was not able to overcome Jacob , he gave him a blow in the hollow part of his leg , so that his leg was damaged .
26 And he said to him , Let me go now , for the dawn is near , but Jacob said , I will not let you go till you have given me your blessing .
27 Then he said , What is your name ? And he said , Jacob .
28 And he said , Your name will no longer be Jacob , but Israel : for in your fight with God and with men you have overcome .
29 Then Jacob said , What is your name ? And he said , What is my name to you ? Then he gave him a blessing .
30 And Jacob gave that place the name of Peniel , saying , I have seen God face to face , and still I am living .
31 And while he was going past Peniel , the sun came up . And he went with unequal steps because of his damaged leg .
32 For this reason the children of Israel , even today , never take that muscle in the hollow of the leg as food , because the hollow of Jacob 's leg was touched .
Genesis 33
1 Then Jacob , lifting up his eyes , saw Esau coming with his four hundred men , So he made a division of the children between Leah and Rachel and the two women - servants .
2 He put the servants and their children in front , Leah and her children after them , and Rachel and Joseph at the back .
3 And he himself , going before them , went down on his face to the earth seven times till he came near his brother .
4 Then Esau came running up to him , and folding him in his arms , gave him a kiss : and the two of them were overcome with weeping .
5 Then Esau , lifting up his eyes , saw the women and the children , and said , Who are these with you ? And he said , The children whom God in his mercy has given to your servant .
6 Then the servants and their children came near , and went down on their faces .
7 And Leah came near with her children , and then Joseph and Rachel , and they did the same .
8 And he said , What were all those herds which I saw on the way ? And Jacob said , They were an offering so that I might have grace in my lord 's eyes .
9 But Esau said , I have enough ; keep what is yours , my brother , for yourself .
10 And Jacob said , Not so ; but if I have grace in your eyes , take them as a sign of my love , for I have seen your face as one may see the face of God , and you have been pleased with me .
11 Take my offering then , with my blessing ; for God has been very good to me and I have enough : so at his strong request , he took it .
12 And he said , Let us go on our journey together , and I will go in front .
13 But Jacob said , My lord may see that the children are only small , and there are young ones in my flocks and herds : one day 's over - driving will be the destruction of all the flock .
14 Do you , my lord , go on before your servant ; I will come on slowly , at the rate at which the cattle and the children are able to go , till I come to my lord at Seir .
15 And Esau said , Then keep some of my men with you , And he said , What need is there for that , if my lord is pleased with me ?
16 So Esau , turning back that day , went on his way to Seir .
17 And Jacob went on to Succoth , where he made a house for himself and put up tents for his cattle : for this reason the place was named Succoth .
18 So Jacob came safely from Paddan - aram to the town of Shechem in the land of Canaan , and put up his tents near the town .
19 And for a hundred bits of money he got from the children of Hamor , the builder of Shechem , the field in which he had put up his tents .
20 And there he put up an altar , naming it El , the God of Israel .
Genesis 34
1 Now Dinah , the daughter whom Leah had by Jacob , went out to see the women of that country .
2 And when Shechem , the son of Hamor the Hivite who was the chief of that land , saw her , he took her by force and had connection with her .
3 Then his heart went out in love to Dinah , the daughter of Jacob , and he said comforting words to her .
4 And Shechem said to Hamor , his father , Get me this girl for my wife .
5 Now Jacob had word of what Shechem had done to his daughter ; but his sons were in the fields with the cattle , and Jacob said nothing till they came .
6 Then Hamor , the father of Shechem , came out to have a talk with Jacob .
7 Now the sons of Jacob came in from the fields when they had news of it , and they were wounded and very angry because of the shame he had done in Israel by having connection with Jacob 's daughter ; and they said , Such a thing is not to be done .
8 But Hamor said to them , Shechem , my son , is full of desire for your daughter : will you then give her to him for a wife ?
9 And let our two peoples be joined together ; give your daughters to us , and take our daughters for yourselves .
10 Go on living with us , and the country will be open to you ; do trade and get property there .
11 And Shechem said to her father and her brothers , If you will give ear to my request , whatever you say I will give to you .
12 However great you make the bride - price and payment , I will give it ; only let me have the girl for my wife .
13 But the sons of Jacob gave a false answer to Shechem and Hamor his father , because of what had been done to Dinah their sister .
14 And they said , It is not possible for us to give our sister to one who is without circumcision , for that would be a cause of shame to us .
15 But on this condition only will we come to an agreement with you : if every male among you becomes like us and undergoes circumcision .
16 Then we will give our daughters to you and take your daughters to us and go on living with you as one people .
17 But if you will not undergo circumcision as we say , then we will take our daughter and go .
18 And their words were pleasing to Hamor and his son Shechem .
19 And without loss of time the young man did as they said , because he had delight in Jacob 's daughter , and he was the noblest of his father 's house .
20 Then Hamor and Shechem , his son , went to the meeting - place of their town , and said to the men of the town .
21 It is the desire of these men to be at peace with us ; let them then go on living in this country and doing trade here , for the country is wide open before them ; let us take their daughters as wives and let us give them our daughters .
22 But these men will make an agreement with us to go on living with us and to become one people , only on the condition that every male among us undergoes circumcision as they have done .
23 Then will not their cattle and their goods and all their beasts be ours ? so let us come to an agreement with them so that they may go on living with us .
24 Then all the men of the town gave ear to the words of Hamor and Shechem his son ; and every male in the town underwent circumcision .
25 But on the third day after , before the wounds were well , two of the sons of Jacob , Simeon and Levi , Dinah 's brothers , took their swords and came into the town by surprise and put all the males to death .
26 And Hamor and his son they put to death with the sword , and they took Dinah from Shechem 's house and went away .
27 And the sons of Jacob came on them when they were wounded and made waste the town because of what had been done to their sister .
28 They took their flocks and their herds and their asses and everything in their town and in their fields .
29 And all their wealth and all their little ones and their wives ; everything in their houses they took and made them waste .
30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi , You have made trouble for me and given me a bad name among the people of this country , among the Canaanites and the Perizzites : and because we are small in number they will come together against me and make war on me ; and it will be the end of me and all my people .
31 But they said , Were we to let him make use of our sister as a loose woman ?
Genesis 35
1 And God said to Jacob , Go up now to Beth - el and make your living - place there : and put up an altar there to the God who came to you when you were in flight from your brother Esau .
2 Then Jacob said to all his people , Put away the strange gods which are among you , and make yourselves clean , and put on a change of clothing .
3 And let us go up to Beth - el : and there I will make an altar to God , who gave me an answer in the day of my trouble , and was with me wherever I went .
4 Then they gave to Jacob all the strange gods which they had , and the rings which were in their ears ; and Jacob put them away under the holy tree at Shechem .
5 So they went on their journey : and the fear of God was on the towns round about , so that they made no attack on the sons of Jacob .
6 And Jacob came to Luz in the land of Canaan ( which is the same as Beth - el ) , he and all his people .
7 And there he made an altar , naming the place El - beth - el : because it was there he had the vision of God when he was in flight from his brother .
8 And Deborah , the servant who had taken care of Rebekah from her birth , came to her end , and was put to rest near Beth - el , under the holy tree : and they gave it the name of Allon - bacuth .
9 Now when Jacob was on his way from Paddan - aram , God came to him again and , blessing him , said .
10 Jacob is your name , but it will be so no longer ; from now your name will be Israel ; so he was named Israel .
11 And God said to him , I am God , the Ruler of all : be fertile , and have increase ; a nation , truly a group of nations , will come from you , and kings will be your offspring .
12 And the land which I gave to Abraham and Isaac , I will give to you ; and to your seed after you I will give the land .
13 Then God went up from him in the place where he had been talking with him .
14 And Jacob put up a pillar in the place where he had been talking with God , and put a drink offering on it , and oil .
15 And he gave to the place where God had been talking with him , the name of Beth - el .
16 So they went on from Beth - el ; and while they were still some distance from Ephrath , the pains of birth came on Rachel and she had a hard time .
17 And when her pain was very great , the woman who was helping her said , Have no fear ; for now you will have another son .
18 And in the hour when her life went from her ( for death came to her ) , she gave the child the name Ben - oni : but his father gave him the name of Benjamin .
19 So Rachel came to her end and was put to rest on the road to Ephrath ( which is Beth - lehem ) .
20 And Jacob put up a pillar on her resting - place ; which is named , The Pillar of the resting - place of Rachel , to this day .
21 And Israel went journeying on and put up his tents on the other side of the tower of the flock .
22 Now while they were living in that country , Reuben had connection with Bilhah , his father 's servant - woman : and Israel had news of it .
23 Now Jacob had twelve sons : the sons of Leah : Reuben , Jacob 's first son , and Simeon and Levi and Judah and Issachar and Zebulun .
24 The sons of Rachel : Joseph and Benjamin .
25 The sons of Bilhah , Rachel 's servant : Dan and Naphtali .
26 The sons of Zilpah , Leah 's servant : Gad and Asher ; these are the sons whom Jacob had in Paddan - aram .
27 And Jacob came to his father Isaac at Mamre , at Kiriath - arba , that is , Hebron , where Abraham and Isaac had been living .
28 And Isaac was a hundred and eighty years old .
29 Then Isaac came to his end and was put to rest with his father 's people , an old man after a long life : and Jacob and Esau , his sons , put him in his last resting - place .
Bible
New Testament
Matthew chapter 1
1 The book of the generations of Jesus Christ , the son of David , the son of Abraham .
2 The son of Abraham was Isaac ; and the son of Isaac was Jacob ; and the sons of Jacob were Judah and his brothers ;
3 And the sons of Judah were Perez and Zerah by Tamar ; and the son of Perez was Hezron ; and the son of Hezron was Ram ;
4 And the son of Ram was Amminadab ; and the son of Amminadab was Nahshon ; and the son of Nahshon was Salmon ;
5 And the son of Salmon by Rahab was Boaz ; and the son of Boaz by Ruth was Obed ; and the son of Obed was Jesse ;
6 And the son of Jesse was David the king ; and the son of David was Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah ;
7 And the son of Solomon was Rehoboam ; and the son of Rehoboam was Abijah ; and the son of Abijah was Asa ;
8 And the son of Asa was Jehoshaphat ; and the son of Jehoshaphat was Joram ; and the son of Joram was Uzziah ;
9 And the son of Uzziah was Jotham ; and the son of Jotham was Ahaz ; and the son of Ahaz was Hezekiah ;
10 And the son of Hezekiah was Manasseh ; and the son of Manasseh was Amon ; and the son of Amon was Josiah ;
11 And the sons of Josiah were Jechoniah and his brothers , at the time of the taking away to Babylon .
12 And after the taking away to Babylon , Jechoniah had a son Shealtiel ; and Shealtiel had Zerubbabel ;
13 And Zerubbabel had Abiud ; and Abiud had Eliakim ; and Eliakim had Azor ;
14 And Azor had Zadok ; and Zadok had Achim ; and Achim had Eliud ;
15 And Eliud had Eleazar ; and Eleazar had Matthan ; and Matthan had Jacob ;
16 And the son of Jacob was Joseph the husband of Mary , who gave birth to Jesus , whose name is Christ .
17 So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations ; and from David to the taking away to Babylon , fourteen generations ; and from the taking away to Babylon to the coming of Christ , fourteen generations .
18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ was in this way : when his mother Mary was going to be married to Joseph , before they came together the discovery was made that she was with child by the Holy Spirit .
19 And Joseph , her husband , being an upright man , and not desiring to make her a public example , had a mind to put her away privately .
20 But when he was giving thought to these things , an angel of the Lord came to him in a dream , saying , Joseph , son of David , have no fear of taking Mary as your wife ; because that which is in her body is of the Holy Spirit .
21 And she will give birth to a son ; and you will give him the name Jesus ; for he will give his people salvation from their sins .
22 Now all this took place so that the word of the Lord by the prophet might come true ,
23 See , the virgin will be with child , and will give birth to a son , and they will give him the name Immanuel , that is , God with us .
24 And Joseph did as the angel of the Lord had said to him , and took her as his wife ;
25 And he had no connection with her till she had given birth to a son ; and he gave him the name Jesus .
Matthew Chapter 2
1 - 2 Now when the birth of Jesus took place in Beth - lehem of Judaea , in the days of Herod the king , there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem , saying , Where is the King of the Jews whose birth has now taken place ? We have seen his star in the east and have come to give him worship .
3 And when it came to the ears of Herod the king , he was troubled , and all Jerusalem with him .
4 And he got together all the chief priests and scribes of the people , questioning them as to where the birth - place of the Christ would be .
5 - 6 And they said to him , In Beth - lehem of Judaea ; for so it is said in the writings of the prophet , you Beth - lehem , in the land of Judah , are not the least among the chiefs of Judah : out of you will come a ruler , who will be the keeper of my people Israel .
7 Then Herod sent for the wise men privately , and put questions to them about what time the star had been seen .
8 And he sent them to Beth - lehem and said , Go and make certain where the young child is ; and when you have seen him , let me have news of it , so that I may come and give him worship .
9 And after hearing the king , they went on their way ; and the star which they saw in the east went before them , till it came to rest over the place where the young child was .
10 And when they saw the star they were full of joy .
11 And they came into the house , and saw the young child with Mary , his mother ; and falling down on their faces they gave him worship ; and from their store they gave him offerings of gold , perfume , and spices .
12 And it was made clear to them by God in a dream that they were not to go back to Herod ; so they went into their country by another way .
13 And when they had gone , an angel of the Lord came to Joseph in a dream , saying , Get up and take the young child and his mother , and go into Egypt , and do not go from there till I give you word ; for Herod will be searching for the young child to put him to death .
14 So he took the young child and his mother by night , and went into Egypt ;
15 And was there till the death of Herod ; so that the word of the Lord through the prophet might come true , Out of Egypt have I sent for my son .
16 Then Herod , when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men , was very angry ; and he sent out , and put to death all the male children in Beth - lehem and in all the parts round about it , from two years old and under , acting on the knowledge which he had got with care from the wise men .
17 - 18 Then the word of Jeremiah the prophet came true , in Ramah there was a sound of weeping and great sorrow , Rachel weeping for her children , and she would not be comforted for their loss .
19 But when Herod was dead , an angel of the Lord came in a dream to Joseph in Egypt ,
20 Saying , Get up and take the young child and his mother , and go into the land of Israel : because they who were attempting to take the young child 's life are dead .
21 And he got up , and took the young child and his mother , and came into the land of Israel .
22 But when it came to his ears that Archelaus was ruling over Judaea in the place of his father Herod , he was in fear of going there ; and God having given him news of the danger in a dream , he went out of the way into the country parts of Galilee .
23 And he came and was living in a town named Nazareth : so that the word of the prophets might come true , He will be named a Nazarene .
Matthew chapter 3
1 - 2 And in those days John the Baptist came preaching in the waste land of Judaea , saying , Let your hearts be turned from sin ; for the kingdom of heaven is near .
3 For this is he of whom Isaiah the prophet said , The voice of one crying in the waste land , Make ready the way of the Lord , make his roads straight .
4 Now John was clothed in camel 's hair , with a leather band about him ; and his food was locusts and honey .
5 Then Jerusalem and all Judaea went out to him , and all the people from near Jordan ;
6 And they were given baptism by him in the river Jordan , saying openly that they had done wrong .
7 But when he saw a number of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism , he said to them , Offspring of snakes , at whose word are you going in flight from the wrath to come ?
8 Let your change of heart be seen in your works :
9 And say not to yourselves , We have Abraham for our father ; because I say to you that God is able from these stones to make children for Abraham .
10 And even now the axe is put to the root of the trees ; every tree then which does not give good fruit is cut down , and put into the fire .
11 Truly , I give baptism with water to those of you whose hearts are changed ; but he who comes after me is greater than I , whose shoes I am not good enough to take up : he will give you baptism with the Holy Spirit and with fire :
12 In whose hand is the instrument with which he will make clean his grain ; he will put the good grain in his store , but the waste will be burned up in the fire which will never be put out .
13 Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan , to be given baptism by him .
14 But John would have kept him back , saying , It is I who have need of baptism from you , and do you come to me ?
15 But Jesus made answer , saying to him , Let it be so now : because so it is right for us to make righteousness complete : then he gave him baptism .
16 And Jesus , having been given baptism , straight away went up from the water ; and , the heavens opening , he saw the Spirit of God coming down on him as a dove ;
17 And a voice came out of heaven , saying , this is my dearly loved Son , with whom I am well pleased .
Matthew chapter 4
1 Then Jesus was sent by the Spirit into the waste land to be tested by the Evil One .
2 And after going without food for forty days and forty nights , he was in need of it .
3 And the Evil One came and said to him , if you are the Son of God , give the word for these stones to become bread .
4 But he made answer and said , It is in the Writings , Bread is not man 's only need , but every word which comes out of the mouth of God .
5 Then the Evil One took him to the holy town ; and he put him on the highest point of the Temple and said to him ,
6 If you are the Son of God , let yourself go down ; for it is in the Writings , He will give his angels care over you ; and , In their hands they will keep you up , so that your foot may not be crushed against a stone .
7 Jesus said to him , again it is in the Writings , You may not put the Lord your God to the test .
8 Again , the Evil One took him up to a very high mountain , and let him see all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them ;
9 And he said to him , All these things will I give you , if you will go down on your face and give me worship .
10 Then said Jesus to him , Away , Satan : for it is in the Writings , Give worship to the Lord your God and be his servant only .
11 Then the Evil One went away from him , and angels came and took care of him .
12 Now when it came to his ears that John had been put in prison , he went away to Galilee ;
13 And going away from Nazareth , he came and made his living - place in Capernaum , which is by the sea , in the country of Zebulun and Naphtali :
14 So that the word of the prophet Isaiah might come true ,
15 The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali , by the way of the sea , the other side of Jordan , Galilee of the Gentiles ,
16 The people who were in the dark saw a great light , and to those in the land of the shade of death did the dawn come up .
17 From that time Jesus went about preaching and saying , Let your hearts be turned from sin , for the kingdom of heaven is near .
18 And when he was walking by the sea of Galilee , he saw two brothers , Simon , whose other name was Peter , and Andrew , his brother , who were putting a net into the sea ; for they were fishermen .
19 And he said to them , Come after me , and I will make you fishers of men .
20 And straight away they let go the nets and went after him .
21 And going on from there he saw two other brothers , James , the son of Zebedee , and John , his brother , in the boat with their father , stitching up their nets ; and he said , Come .
22 And they went straight from the boat and their father and came after him .
23 And Jesus went about in all Galilee , teaching in their Synagogues and preaching the good news of the kingdom , and making well those who were ill with any disease among the people .
24 And news of him went out through all Syria ; and they took to him all who were ill with different diseases and pains , those having evil spirits and those who were off their heads , and those who had no power of moving : and he made them well .
25 And there went after him great numbers from Galilee and Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judaea and from the other side of Jordan .
Matthew chapter 5
1 And seeing great masses of people he went up into the mountain ; and when he was seated his disciples came to him .
2 And with these words he gave them teaching , saying ,
3 Happy are the poor in spirit : for the kingdom of heaven is theirs .
4 Happy are those who are sad : for they will be comforted .
5 Happy are the gentle : for the earth will be their heritage .
6 Happy are those whose heart 's desire is for righteousness : for they will have their desire .
7 Happy are those who have mercy : for they will be given mercy .
8 Happy are the clean in heart : for they will see God .
9 Happy are the peacemakers : for they will be named sons of God .
10 Happy are those who are attacked on account of righteousness : for the kingdom of heaven will be theirs .
11 Happy are you when men give you a bad name , and are cruel to you , and say all evil things against you falsely , because of me .
12 Be glad and full of joy ; for great is your reward in heaven : for so were the prophets attacked who were before you .
13 You are the salt of the earth ; but if its taste goes from the salt , how will you make it salt again ? it is then good for nothing but to be put out and crushed under foot by men .
14 You are the light of the world : a town put on a hill may be seen by all .
15 And a burning light is not put under a vessel , but on its table ; so that its rays may be shining on all who are in the house .
16 Even so let your light be shining before men , so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven .
17 Let there be no thought that I have come to put an end to the law or the prophets . I have not come for destruction , but to make complete .
18 Truly I say to you , Till heaven and earth come to an end , not the smallest letter or part of a letter will in any way be taken from the law , till all things are done .
19 Whoever then goes against the smallest of these laws , teaching men to do the same , will be named least in the kingdom of heaven ; but he who keeps the laws , teaching others to keep them , will be named great in the kingdom of heaven .
20 For I say to you , If your righteousness is not greater than the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees , you will never go into the kingdom of heaven .
21 You have knowledge that it was said in old times , You may not put to death ; and , Whoever puts to death will be in danger of being judged :
22 But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be in danger of being judged ; and he who says to his brother , Raca , will be in danger from the Sanhedrin ; and whoever says , You foolish one , will be in danger of the hell of fire .
23 If then you are making an offering at the altar and there it comes to your mind that your brother has something against you ,
24 While your offering is still before the altar , first go and make peace with your brother , then come and make your offering .
25 Come to an agreement quickly with him who has a cause against you at law , while you are with him on the way , for fear that he may give you up to the judge and the judge may give you to the police and you may be put into prison .
26 Truly I say to you , You will not come out from there till you have made payment of the very last farthing .
27 You have knowledge that it was said , You may not have connection with another man 's wife :
28 But I say to you that everyone whose eyes are turned on a woman with desire has had connection with her in his heart .
29 And if your right eye is a cause of trouble to you , take it out and put it away from you ; because it is better to undergo the loss of one part , than for all your body to go into hell .
30 And if your right hand is a cause of trouble to you , let it be cut off and put it away from you ; because it is better to undergo the loss of one part , than for all your body to go into hell .
31 Again , it was said , Whoever puts away his wife has to give her a statement in writing for this purpose :
32 But I say to you that everyone who puts away his wife for any other cause but the loss of her virtue , makes her false to her husband ; and whoever takes her as his wife after she is put away , is no true husband to her .
33 Again , you have knowledge that it was said in old times , Do not take false oaths , but give effect to your oaths to the Lord :
34 But I say to you , Take no oaths at all : not by the heaven , because it is the seat of God ;
35 Or by the earth , because it is the resting - place for his foot ; or by Jerusalem , because it is the town of the great King .
36 You may not take an oath by your head , because you are not able to make one hair white or black .
37 But let your words be simply , Yes or No : and whatever is more than these is of the Evil One .
38 You have knowledge that it was said , An eye for an eye , and a tooth for a tooth :
39 But I say to you , do not make use of force against an evil man ; but to him who gives you a blow on the right side of your face let the left be turned .
40 And if any man goes to law with you and takes away your coat , do not keep back your robe from him .
41 And whoever makes you go one mile , go with him two .
42 Give to him who comes with a request , and keep not your property from him who would for a time make use of it .
43 You have knowledge that it was said , Have love for your neighbour , and hate for him who is against you :
44 - 45 But I say to you , Have love for those who are against you , and make prayer for those who are cruel to you ; so that you may be the sons of your Father in heaven ; for his sun gives light to the evil and to the good , and he sends rain on the upright man and on the sinner .
46 For if you have love for those who have love for you , what credit is it to you ? do not the tax - farmers the same ?
47 And if you say , Good day , to your brothers only , what do you do more than others ? do not even the Gentiles the same ?
48 Be then complete in righteousness , even as your Father in heaven is complete .
Matthew chapter 6
1 Take care not to do your good works before men , to be seen by them ; or you will have no reward from your Father in heaven .
2 When then you give money to the poor , do not make a noise about it , as the false - hearted men do in the Synagogues and in the streets , so that they may have glory from men : Truly , I say to you , They have their reward .
3 - 4 But when you give money , let not your left hand see what your right hand does : so that your giving may be in secret ; and your Father , who sees in secret , will give you your reward .
5 And when you make your prayers , be not like the false - hearted men , who take pleasure in getting up and saying their prayers in the Synagogues and at the street turnings so that they may be seen by men : truly I say to you , They have their reward .
6 But when you make your prayer , go into your private room , and , shutting the door , say a prayer to your Father in secret , and your Father , who sees in secret , will give you your reward .
7 And in your prayer do not make use of the same words again and again , as the Gentiles do : for they have the idea that God will give attention to them because of the number of their words .
8 So be not like them ; because your Father has knowledge of your needs even before you make your requests to him .
9 Let this then be your prayer : Our Father in heaven , may your name be kept holy .
10 Let your kingdom come : Let your pleasure be done , as in heaven , so on earth .
11 Give us this day bread for our needs .
12 And make us free of our debts , as we have made those free who are in debt to us .
13 And let us not be put to the test , but keep us safe from the Evil One .
14 For if you let men have forgiveness for their sins , you will have forgiveness from your Father in heaven .
15 But if you do not let men have forgiveness for their sins , you will not have forgiveness from your Father for your sins .
16 And when you go without food , be not sad - faced as the false - hearted are : For they go about with changed looks , so that men may see that they are going without food : truly I say to you , they have their reward .
17 - 18 But when you go without food , put oil on your head and make your face clean ; so that no one may see that you are going without food , but your Father in secret ; and your Father , who sees in secret , will give you your reward .
19 - 21 Make no store of wealth for yourselves on earth , where it may be turned to dust by worms and weather , and where thieves may come in by force and take it away , but make a store for yourselves in heaven , where it will not be turned to dust and where thieves do not come in to take it away : for where your wealth is , there will your heart be .
22 The light of the body is the eye ; if then your eye is true , all your body will be full of light .
23 But if your eye is evil , all your body will be dark . If then the light which is in you is dark , how dark it will be !
24 No man is able to be a servant to two masters : for he will have hate for the one and love for the other , or he will keep to one and have no respect for the other : you may not be servants of God and of wealth .
25 So I say to you , Take no thought for your life , about food or drink , or about clothing for your body : is not life more than food , and the body more than its clothing ?
26 See the birds of heaven ; they do not put seeds in the earth , they do not get in grain , or put it in store - houses ; and your Father in heaven gives them food : are you not of much more value than they ?
27 And which of you by taking thought is able to make himself a cubit taller ?
28 And why are you troubled about clothing ? See the flowers of the field , how they come up ; they do no work , they make no thread :
29 But I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not clothed like one of these .
30 But if God gives such clothing to the grass of the field , which is here today and tomorrow is put into the oven , will he not much more give you clothing , O you of little faith ?
31 Then do not be full of care , saying , What are we to have for food or drink ? or , With what may we be clothed ?
32 Because the Gentiles go in search of all these things : for your Father in heaven has knowledge that you have need of all these things :
33 But let your first care be for his kingdom and his righteousness ; and all these other things will be given to you in addition .
34 Then have no care for tomorrow : tomorrow will take care of itself : take the trouble of the day as it comes .
Matthew chapter 7
1 - 2 Be not judges of others , and you will not be judged , for as you have been judging , so you will be judged , and with your measure will it be measured to you .
3 And why do you take note of the grain of dust in your brother 's eye , but take no note of the bit of wood which is in your eye ?
4 Or how will you say to your brother , Let me take out the grain of dust from your eye , when you yourself have a bit of wood in your eye ?
5 You false one , first take out the bit of wood from your eye , then will you see clearly to take out the grain of dust from your brother 's eye .
6 Do not give that which is holy to the dogs , or put your jewels before pigs , for fear that they will be crushed under foot by the pigs whose attack will then be made against you .
7 - 8 Make a request , and it will be answered ; what you are searching for you will get ; give the sign , and the door will be open to you : because to everyone who makes a request , it will be given ; and he who is searching will get his desire , and to him who gives the sign , the door will be open .
9 - 10 Or which of you , if his son makes a request for bread , will give him a stone ; or if he makes a request for a fish , will give him a snake ?
11 If you , then , being evil , are able to give good things to your children , how much more will your Father in heaven give good things to those who make requests to him ?
12 All those things , then , which you would have men do to you , even so do you to them : because this is the law and the prophets .
13 - 14 Go in by the narrow door ; for wide is the door and open is the way which goes to destruction , and great numbers go in by it , for narrow is the door and hard the road to life , and only a small number make discovery of it .
15 Be on the watch for false prophets , who come to you in sheep 's clothing , but inside they are cruel wolves .
16 By their fruits you will get knowledge of them : do men get grapes from thorns or figs from thistles ?
17 Even so , every good tree gives good fruit ; but the bad tree gives evil fruit .
18 It is not possible for a good tree to give bad fruit , and a bad tree will not give good fruit .
19 Every tree which does not give good fruit is cut down and put in the fire .
20 So by their fruits you will get knowledge of them .
21 Not everyone who says to me , Lord , Lord , will go into the kingdom of heaven ; but he who does the pleasure of my Father in heaven .
22 A great number will say to me on that day , Lord , Lord , were we not prophets in your name , and did we not by your name send out evil spirits , and by your name do works of power ?
23 And then will I say to them , i never had knowledge of you : go from me , you workers of evil .
24 Everyone , then , to whom my words come and who does them , will be like a wise man who made his house on a rock ;
25 And the rain came down and there was a rush of waters and the winds were driving against that house , but it was not moved ; because it was based on the rock .
26 And everyone to whom my words come and who does them not , will be like a foolish man who made his house on sand ;
27 And the rain came down and there was a rush of waters and the winds were driving against that house ; and it came down and great was its fall .
28 - 29 And it came about , when Jesus had come to the end of these words , that the people were surprised at his teaching , for he was teaching as one having authority , and not as their scribes .
Matthew chapter 8
1 And when he had come down from the mountain , great numbers of people came after him .
2 And a leper came and gave him worship , saying , Lord , if it is your pleasure , you have power to make me clean .
3 And he put his hand on him , saying , It is my pleasure ; be clean : and straight away he was made clean .
4 And Jesus said to him , See that you say nothing about this to anyone ; but go and let the priest see you and make the offering which was ordered by Moses , for a witness to them .
5 - 6 And when Jesus was come into Capernaum , a certain captain came to him with a request , saying , Lord , my servant is ill in bed at the house , with no power in his body , and in great pain .
7 And he said to him , I will come and make him well .
8 And the captain in answer said , Lord , I am not good enough for you to come under my roof ; but only say the word , and my servant will be made well .
9 Because I myself am a man under authority , having under me fighting men ; and I say to this one , Go , and he goes ; and to another , Come , and he comes ; and to my servant , Do this , and he does it .
10 And when these words came to the ears of Jesus he was surprised , and said to those who came after him , truly I say to you , I have not seen such great faith , no , not in Israel .
11 And I say to you that numbers will come from the east and the west , and will take their seats with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob , in the kingdom of heaven :
12 But the sons of the kingdom will be put out into the dark , and there will be weeping and cries of pain .
13 And Jesus said to the captain , Go in peace ; as your faith is , so let it be done to you : And the servant was made well in that hour .
14 And when Jesus had come into Peter 's house , he saw his wife 's mother in bed , very ill .
15 And he put his hand on hers and the disease went from her , and she got up and took care of his needs .
16 -17 And in the evening , they took to him a number of people who had evil spirits ; and he sent the spirits out of them with a word , and made well all who were ill ; so that the word of Isaiah the prophet might come true : He himself took our pains and our diseases .
18 Now when Jesus saw a great mass of people about him , he gave an order to go to the other side .
19 And there came a scribe and said to him , Master , I will come after you wherever you go .
20 And Jesus said to him , The foxes have holes , and the birds of heaven have a resting - place ; but the Son of man has nowhere to put his head .
21 And another of the disciples said to him , Lord , let me first go and give the last honours to my father .
22 But Jesus said to him , Come after me ; and let the dead take care of their dead .
23 And when he had got into a boat , his disciples went after him .
24 And there came up a great storm in the sea , so that the boat was covered with the waves : but he was sleeping .
25 And they came to him , and , awaking him , said , Help , Lord ; destruction is near .
26 And he said to them , Why are you full of fear , O you of little faith ? Then he got up and gave orders to the winds and the sea ; and there was a great calm .
27 And the men were full of wonder , saying , What sort of man is this , that even the winds and the sea do his orders ?
28 And when he had come to the other side , to the country of the Gadarenes , there came out to him from the place of the dead , two who had evil spirits , so violent that no man was able to go that way .
29 And they gave a loud cry , saying , What have we to do with you , you Son of God ? Have you come here to give us punishment before the time ?
30 Now there was , some distance away , a great herd of pigs taking their food .
31 And the evil spirits made strong prayers to him , saying , If you send us out , let us go into the herd of pigs .
32 And he said to them , Go : and they came out , and went into the pigs ; and the herd went rushing down a sharp slope into the sea and came to their end in the water .
33 And their keepers went in flight to the town and gave an account of everything , and of the men who had the evil spirits .
34 And all the town came out to Jesus ; and seeing him they made request that he would go away from their part of the country .
Matthew chapter 9
1 And he got into a boat and went across and came to his town .
2 And they took to him a man stretched on a bed who had no power of moving ; and Jesus , seeing their faith , said to the man who was ill , Son , take heart ; you have forgiveness for your sins .
3 And some of the scribes said among themselves , This man has no respect for God .
4 And Jesus , having knowledge of what was in their minds , said , Why are your thoughts evil ?
5 For which is the simpler , to say , You have forgiveness for your sins ; or to say , Get up and go ?
6 But so that you may see that on earth the Son of man has authority for the forgiveness of sins , ( then said he to the man who was ill , ) Get up , and take up your bed , and go to your house .
7 And he got up and went away to his house .
8 But when the people saw it they were full of fear , and gave glory to God who had given such authority to men .
9 And when Jesus was going from there , he saw a man whose name was Matthew , seated at the place where taxes were taken ; and he said to him , Come after me : and he got up and went after him .
10 And it came about , when he was in the house taking food , that a number of tax - farmers and sinners came and took their places with Jesus and his disciples .
11 And when the Pharisees saw it , they said to his disciples , Why does your Master take food with tax - farmers and sinners ?
12 But on hearing this he said , Those who are well have no need of a medical man , but those who are ill .
13 But go and take to heart the sense of these words , My desire is for mercy , not offerings : for I have come not to get the upright , but sinners .
14 Then the disciples of John came to him , saying , Why do we and the Pharisees frequently go without food , but your disciples do not ?
15 And Jesus said to them , Will the friends of the newly - married man be sad as long as he is with them ? But the days will come when he will be taken away from them , and then will they go without food .
16 And no man puts a bit of new cloth on an old coat , for by pulling away from the old , it makes a worse hole .
17 And men do not put new wine into old wine-skins ; or the skins will be burst and the wine will come out , and the skins are of no more use : but they put new wine into new wine - skins , and so the two will be safe .
18 While he was saying these things to them , there came a ruler and gave him worship , saying , My daughter is even now dead ; but come and put your hand on her , and she will come back to life .
19 And Jesus got up and went after him , and so did his disciples .
20 - 21 And a woman , who for twelve years had had a flow of blood , came after him , and put her hand on the edge of his robe : because , she said to herself , if I may but put my hand on his robe , I will be made well .
22 But Jesus , turning and seeing her , said , Daughter , take heart ; your faith has made you well : And the woman was made well from that hour .
23 And when Jesus came into the ruler 's house and saw the players with their instruments and the people making a noise ,
24 He said , Make room ; for the girl is not dead , but sleeping : and they were laughing at him .
25 But when the people were sent out , he went in and took her by the hand ; and the girl got up .
26 And the news of it went out into all that land .
27 And when Jesus went on from there , two blind men came after him , crying out , Have mercy on us , you Son of David .
28 And when he had come into the house , the blind men came to him ; and Jesus said to them , Have you faith that I am able to do this ? They said to him , Yes , Lord .
29 Then he put his hand on their eyes , saying , As your faith is , let it be done to you .
30 And their eyes were made open : and Jesus said to them sharply , Let no man have knowledge of it .
31 But they went out and gave news of him in all that land .
32 And while they were going away , there came to him a man without the power of talking , and with an evil spirit .
33 And when the evil spirit had been sent out , the man had the power of talking : and they were all surprised , saying , Such a thing has never been seen in Israel .
34 But the Pharisees said , By the ruler of evil spirits , he sends evil spirits out of men .
35 And Jesus went about all the towns and small places , teaching in their Synagogues and preaching the good news of the kingdom and making well all sorts of disease and pain .
36 But when he saw all the people he was moved with pity for them , because they were troubled and wandering like sheep without a keeper .
37 Then he said to his disciples , There is much grain but not enough men to get it in .
38 Make prayer , then , to the Lord of the grain - fields , that he may send out workers to get in his grain .
Matthew chapter 10
1 And he got together his twelve disciples and gave them the power of driving out unclean spirits , and of making well all sorts of disease and pain .
2 Now the names of the twelve are these : The first , Simon , who is named Peter , and Andrew , his brother ; James , the son of Zebedee , and John , his brother ;
3 Philip and Bartholomew ; Thomas and Matthew , the tax - farmer ; James , the son of Alphaeus , and Thaddaeus ;
4 Simon the Zealot , and Judas Iscariot , who was false to him .
5 - 6 These twelve Jesus sent out and gave them orders , saying , Do not go among the Gentiles , or into any town of Samaria , but go to the wandering sheep of the house of Israel ,
7 And , on your way , say , The kingdom of heaven is near .
8 Make well those who are ill , give life to the dead , make lepers clean , send evil spirits out of men ; freely it has been given to you , freely give .
9 Take no gold or silver or copper in your pockets ;
10 Take no bag for your journey and do not take two coats or shoes or a stick : for the workman has a right to his food .
11 And into whatever town or small place you go , make search there for someone who is respected , and make his house your resting - place till you go away .
12 And when you go in , say , May peace be on this house .
13 And if the house is good enough , let your peace come on it : but if not , let your peace come back to you .
14 And whoever will not take you in , or give ear to your words , when you go out from that house or that town , put off its dust from your feet .
15 Truly I say to you , It will be better for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of God 's judging than for that town .
16 See , I send you out as sheep among wolves : Be then as wise as snakes , and as gentle as doves .
17 - 18 But be on the watch against men : for they will give you up to the Sanhedrins , and in their Synagogues they will give you blows ; and you will come before rulers and kings because of me , for a witness to them and to the Gentiles .
19 But when you are given up into their hands , do not be troubled about what to say or how to say it : for in that hour what you are to say will be given to you ;
20 Because it is not you who say the words , but the Spirit of your Father in you .
21 And brother will give up brother to death , and the father his child : and children will go against their fathers and mothers , and put them to death .
22 And you will be hated by all men because of my name : but he who is strong to the end will have salvation .
23 But when they are cruel to you in one town , go in flight to another : for truly , I say to you , You will not have gone through the towns of Israel before the Son of man comes .
24 A disciple is not greater than his master , or a servant than his lord .
25 It is enough for the disciple that he may be as his master , and the servant as his lord : If they have given the name Beelzebub to the master of the house , how much more to those of his house !
26 Have , then , no fear of them : because nothing is covered which will not come to light , or secret which will not be made clear .
27 What I say to you in the dark , say in the light : and what comes to your ear secretly , say publicly from the house - tops .
28 And have no fear of those who put to death the body , but are not able to put to death the soul : But have fear of him who has power to give soul and body to destruction in hell .
29 Are not sparrows two a farthing ? and not one of them comes to an end without your Father :
30 But the hairs of your head are all numbered .
31 Then have no fear ; you are of more value than a flock of sparrows .
32 To everyone , then , who gives witness to me before men , I will give witness before my Father in heaven .
33 But if anyone says before men that he has no knowledge of me , I will say that I have no knowledge of him before my Father in heaven .
34 Do not have the thought that I have come to send peace on the earth ; I came not to send peace but a sword .
35 For I have come to put a man against his father , and the daughter against her mother , and the daughter - in - law against her mother - in - law :
36 And a man will be hated by those of his house .
37 He who has more love for his father or mother than for me is not good enough for me ; he who has more love for son or daughter than for me is not good enough for me .
38 And he who does not take his cross and come after me is not good enough for me .
39 He who has the desire to keep his life will have it taken from him , and he who gives up his life because of me will have it given back to him .
40 He who gives honour to you gives honour to me ; and he who gives honour to me gives honour to him who sent me .
41 He who gives honour to a prophet , in the name of a prophet , will be given a prophet 's reward ; and he who gives honour to an upright man , in the name of an upright man , will be given an upright man 's reward .
42 And whoever gives to one of these little ones a cup of cold water only , in the name of a disciple , truly I say to you , he will not go without his reward .
Matthew chapter 11
1 And it came about that when Jesus had come to the end of giving these orders to his twelve disciples , he went away from there , teaching and preaching in their towns .
2 Now when John had news in prison of the works of the Christ , he sent his disciples .
3 To say to him , Are you he who is to come , or are we waiting for another ?
4 And Jesus , answering , said to them , Go and give news to John of the things which you are seeing and hearing :
5 The blind see ; those who were not able to , are walking ; lepers are made clean ; those who were without hearing , now have their ears open ; the dead come to life again , and the poor have the good news given to them .
6 And a blessing will be on him who has no doubts about me .
7 And when they were going away , Jesus , talking of John , said to all the people , What went you out into the waste land to see ? a tall stem moving in the wind ?
8 But what went you out to see ? a man delicately clothed ? Those who have fair robes are in kings ' houses .
9 But why did you go out ? to see a prophet ? Yes , I say to you , and more than a prophet .
10 This is he of whom it has been said , See , I send my servant before your face , who will make ready your way before you .
11 Truly I say to you , Among the sons of women there has not been a greater than John the Baptist : but he who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he .
12 And from the days of John the Baptist till now , the kingdom of heaven is forcing its way in , and men of force take it .
13 For all the prophets and the law were in force till John .
14 And if you are able to see it , this is Elijah who was to come .
15 He who has ears , let him give ear .
16 But what comparison may I make of this generation ? It is like children seated in the market - places , crying out to one another ,
17 We made music for you and you did not take part in the dance ; we gave cries of sorrow and you made no signs of grief .
18 For John came , taking no food or drink , and they say , He has an evil spirit .
19 The Son of man has come feasting , and they say , See , a lover of food and wine , a friend of tax - farmers and sinners ! And wisdom is judged to be right by her works .
20 Then he went on to say hard things to the towns where most of his works of power were done , because they had not been turned from their sins .
21 Unhappy are you , Chorazin ! Unhappy are you , Beth - saida ! For if the works of power which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon , they would have been turned from their sins in days gone by , clothing themselves in haircloth and putting dust on their heads .
22 But I say to you , It will be better for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judging , than for you .
23 And you , Capernaum , were you not to be lifted up to heaven ? you will go down into hell : for if the works of power which were done in you had been done in Sodom , it would have been here to this day .
24 But I say to you that it will be better for the land of Sodom in the day of judging , than for you .
25 At that time Jesus made answer and said , I give praise to you , O Father , Lord of heaven and earth , because you have kept these things secret from the wise and the men of learning , and have made them clear to little children .
26 Yes , Father , for so it was pleasing in your eyes .
27 All things have been given to me by my Father ; and no one has knowledge of the Son , but the Father ; and no one has knowledge of the Father , but the Son , and he to whom the Son will make it clear .
28 Come to me , all you who are troubled and weighted down with care , and I will give you rest .
29 - 30 Take my yoke on you and become like me , for I am gentle and without pride , and you will have rest for your souls ; for my yoke is good , and the weight I take up is not hard .
Matthew chapter 12
1 At that time Jesus went through the fields on the Sabbath day ; and his disciples , being in need of food , were taking the heads of grain .
2 But the Pharisees , when they saw it , said to him , See , your disciples do that which it is not right to do on the Sabbath .
3 But he said to them , Have you no knowledge of what David did when he had need of food , and those who were with him ?
4 How he went into the house of God and took for food the holy bread which it was not right for him or for those who were with him to take , but only for the priests ?
5 Or is it not said in the law , how the Sabbath is broken by the priests in the Temple and they do no wrong ?
6 But I say to you that a greater thing than the Temple is here .
7 But if these words had been in your minds , My desire is for mercy and not for offerings , you would not have been judging those who have done no wrong .
8 For the Son of man is lord of the Sabbath .
9 And he went from there into their Synagogue :
10 And there was a man with a dead hand : And they put a question to him , saying , Is it right to make a man well on the Sabbath day ? so that they might have something against him .
11 And he said to them , Which of you , having a sheep , if it gets into a hole on the Sabbath day , will not put out a helping hand and get it back ?
12 Of how much more value is a man than a sheep ! For this reason it is right to do good on the Sabbath day .
13 Then said he to the man , Put out your hand : And he put it out , and it was made as well as the other .
14 But the Pharisees went out and made designs against him , how they might put him to death .
15 And Jesus , having knowledge of this , went away from there , and a great number went after him ; and he made them all well ,
16 Ordering them not to give people word of him :
17 So that what was said by Isaiah the prophet might come true ,
18 See my servant , the man of my selection , my loved one in whom my soul is well pleased : I will put my Spirit on him , and he will make my decision clear to the Gentiles .
19 His coming will not be with fighting or loud cries ; and his voice will not be lifted up in the streets .
20 The crushed stem will not be broken by him ; and the feebly burning light will he not put out , till he has made righteousness overcome all .
21 And in his name will the Gentiles put their hope .
22 Then they took to him one with an evil spirit , who was blind and had no power of talking : and he made him well so that he had the power of talking and seeing .
23 And all the people were surprised and said , Is not this the Son of David ?
24 But the Pharisees , hearing of it , said , This man only sends evil spirits out of men by Beelzebub , the ruler of evil spirits .
25 And having knowledge of their thoughts he said to them , Every kingdom having division in itself is made waste , and every town or house having division in itself will come to destruction .
26 And if Satan sends out Satan , he makes war against himself ; how then will he keep his kingdom ?
27 And if I by Beelzebub send evil spirits out of men , by whom do your sons send them out ? So let them be your judges .
28 But if I by the Spirit of God send out evil spirits , then is the kingdom of God come on you .
29 Or how may one go into a strong man 's house and take his goods , if he does not first put cords round the strong man ? and then he may take his goods .
30 Whoever is not with me is against me ; and he who does not take part with me in getting people together , is driving them away .
31 So I say to you , Every sin and every evil word against God will have forgiveness ; but for evil words against the Spirit there will be no forgiveness .
32 And whoever says a word against the Son of man , will have forgiveness ; but whoever says a word against the Holy Spirit , will not have forgiveness in this life or in that which is to come .
33 Make the tree good , and its fruit good ; or make the tree bad , and its fruit bad ; for by its fruit you will get knowledge of the tree .
34 You offspring of snakes , how are you , being evil , able to say good things ? because out of the heart 's store come the words of the mouth .
35 The good man out of his good store gives good things ; and the evil man out of his evil store gives evil things .
36 - 37 And I say to you that in the day when they are judged , men will have to give an account of every foolish word they have said , for by your words will your righteousness be seen , and by your words you will be judged .
38 Then some of the scribes and Pharisees , hearing this , said to him , Master , we are looking for a sign from you .
39 But he , answering , said to them , An evil and false generation is looking for a sign ; and no sign will be given to it but the sign of the prophet Jonah .
40 For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the stomach of the great fish , so will the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth .
41 The men of Nineveh will come up in the day of judging and give their decision against this generation : because they were turned from their sins at the preaching of Jonah ; and now a greater than Jonah is here .
42 The queen of the South will come up in the day of judging and give her decision against this generation : for she came from the ends of the earth to give ear to the wisdom of Solomon ; and now a greater than Solomon is here .
43 But the unclean spirit , when he is gone out of a man , goes through dry places looking for rest , and getting it not .
44 Then he says , I will go back into my house from which I came out ; and when he comes , he sees that there is no one in it , but that it has been made fair and clean .
45 Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits worse than himself , and they go in and make it their living - place : and the last condition of that man is worse than the first : Even so will it be with this evil generation .
46 While he was still talking to the people , his mother and his brothers came , desiring to have talk with him .
47 And one said to him , See , your mother and your brothers are outside , desiring to have talk with you .
48 But he in answer said to him who gave the news , Who is my mother and who are my brothers ?
49 - 50 And he put out his hand to his disciples and said , See , my mother and my brothers , for whoever does the pleasure of my Father in heaven , he is my brother , and sister , and mother .
Mattew chapter 13
1 On that day Jesus went out of the house and was seated by the seaside .
2 And great numbers of people came together to him , so that he got into a boat ; and the people took up their position by the sea .
3 And he gave them teaching in the form of a story , saying , A man went out to put seed in the earth .
4 And while he did so , some seeds were dropped by the wayside , and the birds came and took them for food .
5 And some of the seed went among the stones , where it had not much earth , and straight away it came up because the earth was not deep .
6 And when the sun was high , it was burned ; and because it had no root it became dry and dead .
7 And some seeds went among thorns , and the thorns came up and they had no room for growth :
8 And some , falling on good earth , gave fruit , some a hundred , some sixty , some thirty times as much .
9 He who has ears , let him give ear .
10 And the disciples came and said to him , Why do you say things to them in the form of stories ?
11 And he said to them in answer , to you is given the knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of heaven , but to them it is not given .
12 Because whoever has , to him will be given , and he will have more ; but from him who has not , even what he has will be taken away .
13 For this reason I put things into the form of stories ; because they see without seeing , and give ear without hearing , and the sense is not clear to them .
14 - 15 And for them the words of Isaiah have come true , Though you give ear , you will not get knowledge ; and seeing , you will see , but the sense will not be clear to you , for the heart of this people has become fat and their ears are slow in hearing and their eyes are shut ; for fear that they might see with their eyes and give hearing with their ears and become wise in their hearts and be turned again to me , so that I might make them well .
16 - 17 But a blessing be on your eyes , because they see ; and on your ears , because they are open , for truly , I say to you that prophets and upright men had a desire to see the things which you see , and saw them not ; and to have knowledge of the words which have come to your ears , and they had it not .
18 Give ear , then , to the story of the man who put the seed in the earth .
19 When the word of the kingdom comes to anyone , and the sense of it is not clear to him , then the Evil One comes , and quickly takes away that which was put in his heart : he is the seed dropped by the wayside .
20 And that which went on the stones , this is he who , hearing the word , straight away takes it with joy .
21 But having no root in himself , he goes on for a time ; and when trouble comes or pain , because of the word , he quickly becomes full of doubts .
22 And that which was dropped among the thorns , this is he who has the word ; and the cares of this life , and the deceits of wealth , put a stop to the growth of the word and it gives no fruit .
23 And the seed which was put in good earth , this is he who gives ear to the word , and gets the sense of it ; who gives fruit , some a hundred , some sixty , some thirty times as much .
24 And he gave them another story , saying , The kingdom of heaven is like a man who put good seed in his field :
25 But while men were sleeping , one who had hate for him came and put evil seeds among the grain , and went away .
26 But when the green stem came up and gave fruit , the evil plants were seen at the same time .
27 And the servants of the master of the house came and said to him , Sir , did you not put good seed in your field ? how then has it evil plants ?
28 And he said , Someone has done this in hate : And the servants say to him , Is it your pleasure that we go and take them up ?
29 But he says , No , for fear that by chance while you take up the evil plants , you may be rooting up the grain with them .
30 Let them come up together till the getting in of the grain ; and then I will say to the workers , take up first the evil plants , and put them together for burning : but put the grain into my store - house .
31 He put another story before them , saying , The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed which a man took and put in his field :
32 Which is smaller than all seeds ; but when it has come up it is greater than the plants , and becomes a tree , so that the birds of heaven come and make their resting-places in its branches .
33 Another story he gave to them : The kingdom of heaven is like leaven , which a woman took , and put in three measures of meal , till it was all leavened .
34 - 35 All these things Jesus said to the people in the form of stories ; and without a story he said nothing to them : that it might come true which was said by the prophet , Opening my mouth , I will give out stories ; I will give knowledge of things kept secret from before all time .
36 Then he went away from the people , and went into the house ; and his disciples came to him , saying , make clear to us the story of the evil plants in the field .
37 And he made answer and said , he who puts the good seed in the earth is the Son of man .
38 And the field is the world ; and the good seed is the sons of the kingdom ; and the evil seeds are the sons of the Evil One .
39 And he who put them in the earth is Satan ; and the getting in of the grain is the end of the world ; and those who get it in are the angels .
40 As then the evil plants are got together and burned with fire , so will it be in the end of the world .
41 The Son of man will send out his angels , and they will take out of his kingdom everything which is a cause of error , and all those who do wrong .
42 And will put them into the fire ; there will be weeping and cries of sorrow .
43 Then will the upright be shining as the sun in the kingdom of their Father : he who has ears , let him give ear .
44 The kingdom of heaven is like a secret store of wealth in a field , which a man came across and put back again ; and in his joy he goes and gives all he has , to get that field .
45 Again , the kingdom of heaven is like a trader searching for beautiful jewels .
46 And having come across one jewel of great price , he went and gave all he had in exchange for it .
47 Again , the kingdom of heaven is like a net , which was put into the sea and took in every sort of fish .
48 When it was full , they took it up on the sands ; and seated there they put the good into vessels , but the bad they put away .
49 So will it be in the end of the world : the angels will come and take out the bad from the good .
50 And will put them into the fire : there will be weeping and cries of sorrow .
51 Are all these things now clear to you ? They say to him , Yes .
52 And he said to them , For this reason every scribe who has become a disciple of the kingdom of heaven is like the owner of a house , who gives out from his store things new and old .
53 And when Jesus had come to the end of these stories he went away from there .
54 - 56 And coming into his country , he gave them teaching in their Synagogue , so that they were greatly surprised and said , Where did this man get this wisdom and these works of power ; is not this the woodworker 's son : is not his mother named Mary : and his brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas : and his sisters , are they not all with us from where , then , has he all these things ?
57 And they were bitter against him : but Jesus said to them , a prophet is nowhere without honour but in his country and among his family .
58 And the works of power which he did there were small in number because they had no faith .
Mattew chapter 14
1 At that time news of Jesus came to Herod the king .
2 And he said to his servants , This is John the Baptist ; he has come back from the dead , and so these powers are working in him .
3 - 4 For Herod had taken John and put him in prison because of Herodias , his brother Philip 's wife , because John had said to him , It is not right for you to have her .
5 And he would have put him to death , but for his fear of the people , because in their eyes John was a prophet .
6 But when Herod 's birthday came , the daughter of Herodias was dancing before them , and Herod was pleased with her .
7 So he gave her his word with an oath to let her have whatever she might make request for .
8 And she , at her mother 's suggestion , said , Give me here on a plate the head of John the Baptist .
9 And the king was sad ; but because of his oaths and because of his guests , he gave the order for it to be given to her .
10 And he sent and had John 's head cut off in the prison .
11 And his head was put on a plate and given to the girl ; and she took it to her mother .
12 And his disciples came , and took up his body and put it in the earth ; and they went and gave Jesus news of what had taken place .
13 Now when it came to the ears of Jesus , he went away from there in a boat , to a waste place by himself : and the people hearing of it , went after him on foot from the towns .
14 And he came out and saw a great number of people and he had pity on them , and made well those of them who were ill .
15 And when evening had come , the disciples came to him , saying , This place is waste land , and the time is now past ; send the people away so that they may go into the towns and get themselves food .
16 But Jesus said to them , there is no need for them to go away ; give them food yourselves .
17 And they say to him , We have here but five cakes of bread and two fishes .
18 And he said , give them to me .
19 And he gave orders for the people to be seated on the grass ; and he took the five cakes of bread and the two fishes and , looking up to heaven , he said words of blessing , and made division of the food , and gave it to the disciples , and the disciples gave it to the people .
20 And they all took of the food and had enough : and they took up twelve baskets full of broken bits which were not used .
21 And those who had food were about five thousand men , in addition to women and children .
22 And straight away he made the disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side , till he had sent the people away .
23 And after he had sent the people away , he went up into the mountain by himself for prayer : and when evening was come , he was there by himself .
24 But the boat was now in the middle of the sea , and was troubled by the waves : for the wind was against them .
25 And in the fourth watch of the night he came to them , walking on the sea .
26 And when they saw him walking on the sea , they were troubled , saying , it is a spirit ; and they gave cries of fear .
27 But straight away Jesus said to them , take heart ; it is I , have no fear .
28 And Peter , answering , said to him , Lord , if it is you , give me the order to come to you on the water .
29 And he said , Come : and Peter got out of the boat , and walking on the water , went to Jesus .
30 But when he saw the wind he was in fear and , starting to go down , he gave a cry , saying , Help , Lord .
31 And straight away Jesus put out his hand and took a grip of him , and said to him , O man of little faith , why were you in doubt ?
32 And when they had got into the boat , the wind went down .
33 And those who were in the boat gave him worship , saying , truly you are the Son of God .
34 And when they had gone across , they came to land at Gennesaret .
35 And when the men of that place had news of him , they sent into all the country round about , and took to him all who were ill .
36 With the request that they might only put their hands on the edge of his robe : and all those who did so were made well .
Mattew chapter 15
1 Then there came to Jesus from Jerusalem Pharisees and scribes , saying .
2 Why do your disciples go against the teaching of the fathers ? for they take food with unwashed hands .
3 And in answer he said to them , Why do you , yourselves , go against the word of God on account of the teaching which has been handed down to you ?
4 For God said , Give honour to your father and mother : and , He who says evil of father or mother will be put to death .
5 But you say , If a man says to his father or his mother , that by which you might have had profit from me is given to God .
6 There is no need for him to give honour to his father : and you have made the word of God without effect because of your teaching .
7 You false ones , well did Isaiah say of you ,
8 These people give me honour with their lips , but their heart is far from me .
9 But their worship is to no purpose , while they give as their teaching the rules of men .
10 And he got the people together and said to them , Give ear , and let my words be clear to you .
11 Not that which goes into the mouth makes a man unclean , but that which comes out of the mouth .
12 Then the disciples came and said to him , did you see that the Pharisees were troubled when these words came to their ears ?
13 But he said in answer , every plant which my Father in heaven has not put in the earth , will be taken up by the roots .
14 Let them be : they are blind guides . and if a blind man is guiding a blind man , the two will go falling into a hole together .
15 Then Peter said to him , Make the story clear to us .
16 And he said , Are you , like them , still without wisdom ?
17 Do you not see that whatever goes into the mouth goes on into the stomach , and is sent out as waste ?
18 But the things which come out of the mouth come from the heart ; and they make a man unclean .
19 For out of the heart come evil thoughts , the taking of life , broken faith between the married , unclean desires of the flesh , taking of property , false witness , bitter words .
20 These are the things which make a man unclean ; but to take food with unwashed hands does not make a man unclean .
21 And Jesus went away from there into the country of Tyre and Sidon .
22 And a woman of Canaan came out from those parts , crying and saying , Have pity on me , O Lord , Son of David ; my daughter is greatly troubled with an unclean spirit .
23 But he gave her no answer : and his disciples came and said to him , Send her away , for she is crying after us .
24 But he made answer and said , I was sent only to the wandering sheep of the house of Israel .
25 But she came and gave him worship , saying , Help , Lord .
26 And he made answer and said , It is not right to take the children 's bread and give it to the dogs .
27 But she said , Yes , Lord : but even the dogs take the bits from under their masters ' table .
28 Then Jesus , answering , said to her , O woman , great is your faith : let your desire be done : and her daughter was made well from that hour .
29 And Jesus went from there and came to the sea of Galilee ; and he went up into the mountain , and took his seat there .
30 And there came to him great numbers of people having with them those who were broken in body , or blind , or without voice , or wounded , or ill in any way , and a number of others ; they put them down at his feet and he made them well .
31 So that the people were full of wonder when they saw that those who had no voice were talking , the feeble were made strong , those whose bodies were broken had the power of walking , and the blind were able to see : and they gave glory to the God of Israel .
32 And Jesus got his disciples together and said , I have pity for the people , because they have now been with me three days and have no food : and I will not send them away without food , or they will have no strength for the journey .
33 And the disciples say to him , How may we get enough bread in a waste place , to give food to such a number of people ?
34 And Jesus says to them , How much bread have you ? And they said , Seven cakes , and some small fishes .
35 Then he gave an order to the people to be seated on the earth .
36 And he took the seven cakes of bread and the fishes ; and having given praise , he gave the broken bread to the disciples , and the disciples gave it to the people .
37 And they all took food , and had enough ; and they took up of the broken bits , seven baskets full .
38 And there were four thousand men who took food , together with women and children .
39 And when he had sent the people away , he got into the boat , and came into the country of Magadan .
Matthew 16
1 And the Pharisees and Sadducees came and , testing him , made a request to him to give them a sign from heaven .
2 But in answer he said to them , At nightfall you say , The weather will be good , for the sky is red .
3 And in the morning , The weather will be bad today , for the sky is red and angry . You are able to see the face of heaven , but not the signs of the times .
4 An evil and false generation is searching after a sign ; and no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah . And he went away from them .
5 And when the disciples came to the other side they had not taken thought to get bread .
6 And Jesus said to them , Take care to have nothing to do with the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees .
7 And they were reasoning among themselves , saying , We took no bread .
8 And Jesus , seeing it , said , O you of little faith , why are you reasoning among yourselves , because you have no bread ?
9 Do you still not see , or keep in mind the five cakes of bread of the five thousand , and the number of baskets you took up ?
10 Or the seven cakes of bread of the four thousand , and the number of baskets you took up ?
11 How is it that you do not see that I was not talking to you about bread , but about keeping away from the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees ?
12 Then they saw that it was not the leaven of bread which he had in mind , but the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees .
13 Now when Jesus had come into the parts of Caesarea Philippi , he said , questioning his disciples , Who do men say that the Son of man is ?
14 And they said , Some say , John the Baptist ; some , Elijah ; and others , Jeremiah , or one of the prophets .
15 He says to them , But who do you say that I am ?
16 And Simon Peter made answer and said , You are the Christ , the Son of the living God .
17 And Jesus made answer and said to him , A blessing on you , Simon Bar-jonah : because this knowledge has not come to you from flesh and blood , but from my Father in heaven .
18 And I say to you that you are Peter , and on this rock will my church be based , and the doors of hell will not overcome it .
19 I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of heaven : and whatever is fixed by you on earth will be fixed in heaven : and whatever you make free on earth will be made free in heaven .
20 Then he gave orders to the disciples to give no man word that he was the Christ .
21 From that time Jesus went on to make clear to his disciples how he would have to go up to Jerusalem , and undergo much at the hands of those in authority and the chief priests and scribes , and be put to death , and the third day come again from the dead .
22 And Peter , protesting , said to him , Be it far from you , Lord ; it is impossible that this will come about .
23 But he , turning to Peter , said , Get out of my way , Satan : you are a danger to me because your mind is not on the things of God , but on the things of men .
24 - 25 Then Jesus said to his disciples , If any man would come after me , let him give up all , and take up his cross , and come after me , because whoever has a desire to keep his life safe will have it taken from him ; but whoever gives up his life because of me , will have it given back to him .
26 For what profit has a man , if he gets all the world with the loss of his life ? or what will a man give in exchange for his life ?
27 For the Son of man will come in the glory of his Father with his angels ; and then he will give to every man the reward of his works .
28 Truly I say to you , There are some of those here who will not have a taste of death , till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom .
Matthew 17
1 And after six days Jesus takes with him Peter , and James , and John , his brother , and makes them go up with him into a high mountain by themselves .
2 And he was changed in form before them ; and his face was shining like the sun , and his clothing became white as light .
3 And Moses and Elijah came before their eyes , talking with him .
4 And Peter made answer and said to Jesus , Lord , it is good for us to be here : if you will let me , I will make here three tents , one for you , and one for Moses , and one for Elijah .
5 While he was still talking , a bright cloud came over them : and a voice out of the cloud , saying , This is my dearly loved Son , with whom I am well pleased ; give ear to him .
6 And at these words the disciples went down on their faces in great fear .
7 And Jesus came and put his hand on them and said , Get up and have no fear .
8 And lifting up their eyes , they saw no one , but Jesus only .
9 And when they were coming down from the mountain , Jesus gave them orders , saying , Let no man have word of what you have seen , till the Son of man has come again from the dead .
10 And his disciples , questioning him , said , Why then do the scribes say that Elijah has to come first ?
11 And in answer he said , Elijah truly has to come and put all things right :
12 But I say to you that Elijah has come , and they had no knowledge of him , but did to him whatever they were pleased to do ; the same will the Son of man undergo at their hands .
13 Then the disciples saw that he was talking to them of John the Baptist .
14 And when they came to the people , a man went down on his knees to him , saying ,
15 Lord have mercy on my son : for he is off his head , and is in great pain ; and frequently he goes falling into the fire , and frequently into the water .
16 And I took him to your disciples , and they were not able to make him well .
17 And Jesus , answering , said , O false and foolish generation , how long will I be with you ? how long will I put up with you ? let him come here to me .
18 And Jesus gave orders to the unclean spirit , and it went out of him : and the boy was made well from that hour .
19 Then the disciples came to Jesus privately , and said , Why were we not able to send it out ?
20 And he says to them , Because of your little faith : for truly I say to you , If you have faith as a grain of mustard seed , you will say to this mountain , Be moved from this place to that ; and it will be moved ; and nothing will be impossible to you .
21 Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting .
22 And while they were going about in Galilee , Jesus said to them , The Son of man will be given up into the hands of men ;
23 And they will put him to death , and the third day he will come again from the dead . And they were very sad .
24 And when they had come to Capernaum , those who took the Temple tax came to Peter and said , Does not your master make payment of the Temple tax ?
25 He says , Yes . And when he came into the house , Jesus said to him , What is your opinion , Simon ? from whom do the kings of the earth get payment or tax ? from their sons or from other people ?
26 And when he said , From other people , Jesus said to him , Then are the sons free .
27 But , so that we may not be a cause of trouble to them , go to the sea , and let down a hook , and take the first fish which comes up ; and in his mouth you will see a bit of money : take that , and give it to them for me and you .
Matthew 18
1 In that hour the disciples came to Jesus , saying , Who is greatest in the kingdom of heaven ?
2 And he took a little child , and put him in the middle of them ,
3 And said , Truly , I say to you , If you do not have a change of heart and become like little children , you will not go into the kingdom of heaven .
4 Whoever , then , will make himself as low as this little child , the same is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven .
5 And whoever gives honour to one such little child in my name , gives honour to me :
6 But whoever is a cause of trouble to one of these little ones who have faith in me , it would be better for him to have a great stone fixed to his neck , and to come to his end in the deep sea .
7 A curse is on the earth because of trouble ! for it is necessary for trouble to come ; but unhappy is that man through whom the trouble comes .
8 And if your hand or your foot is a cause of trouble , let it be cut off and put it away from you : it is better for you to go into life with the loss of a hand or a foot than , having two hands or two feet , to go into the eternal fire .
9 And if your eye is a cause of trouble to you , take it out , and put it away from you : it is better for you to go into life with one eye than , having two eyes , to go into the hell of fire .
10 Let it not seem to you that one of these little ones is of no value ; for I say to you that in heaven their angels see at all times the face of my Father in heaven .
11 For the son of man is come to save that which is lost .
12 What would you say now ? if a man has a hundred sheep , and one of them has gone wandering away , will he not let the ninety-nine be , and go to the mountains in search of the wandering one ?
13 And if he comes across it , truly I say to you , he has more joy over it than over the ninety-nine which have not gone out of the way .
14 Even so it is not the pleasure of your Father in heaven for one of these little ones to come to destruction .
15 And if your brother does wrong to you , go , make clear to him his error between you and him in private : if he gives ear to you , you have got your brother back again .
16 But if he will not give ear to you , take with you one or two more , that by the lips of two or three witnesses every word may be made certain .
17 And if he will not give ear to them , let it come to the hearing of the church : and if he will not give ear to the church , let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax-farmer .
18 Truly I say to you , Whatever things are fixed by you on earth will be fixed in heaven : and whatever you make free on earth will be made free in heaven .
19 - 20 Again , I say to you , that if two of you are in agreement on earth about anything for which they will make a request , it will be done for them by my Father in heaven , For where two or three are come together in my name , there am I among them .
21 Then Peter came and said to him , Lord , what number of times may my brother do wrong against me , and I give him forgiveness ? till seven times ?
22 Jesus says to him , I say not to you , Till seven times ; but , Till seventy times seven .
23 For this reason the kingdom of heaven is like a king , who went over his accounts with his servants .
24 And at the start , one came to him who was in his debt for ten thousand talents .
25 And because he was not able to make payment , his lord gave orders for him , and his wife , and his sons and daughters , and all he had , to be given for money , and payment to be made .
26 So the servant went down on his face and gave him worship , saying , Lord , give me time to make payment and I will give you all .
27 And the lord of that servant , being moved with pity , let him go , and made him free of the debt .
28 But that servant went out , and meeting one of the other servants , who was in debt to him for one hundred pence , he took him by the throat , saying , Make payment of your debt .
29 So that servant went down on his face , requesting him and saying , Give me time and I will make payment to you .
30 And he would not : but went and put him into prison till he had made payment of the debt .
31 So when the other servants saw what was done they were very sad , and came and gave word to their lord of what had been done .
32 Then his lord sent for him and said , You evil servant ; I made you free of all that debt , because of your request to me :
33 Was it not right for you to have mercy on the other servant , even as I had mercy on you ?
34 And his lord was very angry , and put him in the hands of those who would give him punishment till he made payment of all the debt .
35 So will my Father in heaven do to you , if you do not everyone , from your hearts , give forgiveness to his brother .
Matthew 19
1 And it came about that after saying these words , Jesus went away from Galilee , and came into the parts of Judaea on the other side of Jordan .
2 And a great number went after him ; and he made them well there .
3 And certain Pharisees came to him , testing him , and saying , Is it right for a man to put away his wife for every cause ?
4 And he said in answer , Have you not seen in the Writings , that he who made them at the first made them male and female , and said ,
5 For this cause will a man go away from his father and mother , and be joined to his wife ; and the two will become one flesh ?
6 So that they are no longer two , but one flesh . Then let not that which has been joined by God be parted by man .
7 They say to him , Why then did Moses give orders that a husband might give her a statement in writing and be free from her ?
8 He says to them , Moses , because of your hard hearts , let you put away your wives : but it has not been so from the first .
9 And I say to you , Whoever puts away his wife for any other cause than the loss of her virtue , and takes another , is a false husband : and he who takes her as his wife when she is put away , is no true husband to her .
10 The disciples say to him , If this is the position of a man in relation to his wife , it is better not to be married .
11 But he said to them , Not all men are able to take in this saying , but only those to whom it is given .
12 For there are men who , from birth , were without sex : and there are some who were made so by men : and there are others who have made themselves so for the kingdom of heaven . He who is able to take it , let him take it .
13 Then some people took little children to him , so that he might put his hands on them in blessing : and the disciples said sharp words to them .
14 But Jesus said , Let the little ones come to me , and do not keep them away : for of such is the kingdom of heaven .
15 And he put his hands on them , and went away .
16 And one came to him and said , Master , what good thing have I to do , so that I may have eternal life ?
17 And he said to him , Why are you questioning me about what is good ? One there is who is good : but if you have a desire to go into life , keep the rules of the law .
18 He says to him , Which ? And Jesus said , Do not put anyone to death , Do not be untrue in married life , Do not take what is not yours , Do not give false witness ,
19 Give honour to your father and your mother : and , Have love for your neighbour as for yourself .
20 The young man says to him , All these things have I done : what more is there ?
21 Jesus said to him , If you have a desire to be complete , go , get money for your property , and give it to the poor , and you will have wealth in heaven : and come after me .
22 But hearing these words the young man went away sorrowing : for he had much property .
23 And Jesus said to his disciples , Truly I say to you , It is hard for a man with much money to go into the kingdom of heaven .
24 And again I say to you , It is simpler for a camel to go through a needle's eye , than for a man with much money to go into the kingdom of God .
25 And the disciples , hearing this , were greatly surprised , saying , Who then may have salvation ?
26 And Jesus , looking at them , said , With men this is not possible ; but with God all things are possible .
27 Then Peter said to him , See , we have given up everything and have come after you ; what then will we have ?
28 And Jesus said to them , Truly I say to you that in the time when all things are made new , and the Son of man is seated in his glory , you who have come after me will be seated on twelve seats , judging the twelve tribes of Israel .
29 And everyone who has given up houses , or brothers , or sisters , or father , or mother , or child , or land , for my name , will be given a hundred times as much , and have eternal life .
30 But a great number who are first will be last , and some who are last will be first .
Matthew 20
1 For the kingdom of heaven is like the master of a house , who went out early in the morning to get workers into his vine-garden .
2 And when he had made an agreement with the workmen for a penny a day , he sent them into his vine-garden .
3 And he went out about the third hour , and saw others in the market-place doing nothing ;
4 And he said to them , Go into the vine-garden with the others , and whatever is right I will give you . And they went to work .
5 Again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour , and did the same .
6 And about the eleventh hour he went out and saw others doing nothing ; and he says to them , Why are you here all the day doing nothing ?
7 They say to him , Because no man has given us work . He says to them , Go in with the rest , into the vine-garden .
8 And when evening came , the lord of the vine-garden said to his manager , Let the workers come , and give them their payment , from the last to the first .
9 And when those men came who had gone to work at the eleventh hour , they were given every man a penny .
10 Then those who came first had the idea that they would get more ; and they , like the rest , were given a penny .
11 And when they got it , they made a protest against the master of the house ,
12 Saying , These last have done only one hour's work , and you have made them equal to us , who have undergone the hard work of the day and the burning heat .
13 But he in answer said to one of them , Friend , I do you no wrong : did you not make an agreement with me for a penny ?
14 Take what is yours , and go away ; it is my pleasure to give to this last , even as to you .
15 Have I not the right to do as seems good to me in my house ? or is your eye evil , because I am good ?
16 So the last will be first , and the first last .
17 And when Jesus was going up to Jerusalem , he took the twelve disciples on one side , and said to them ,
18 See , we go up to Jerusalem ; and the Son of man will be given into the hands of the chief priests and scribes ; and they will give orders for him to be put to death ,
19 And will give him up to the Gentiles to be made sport of and to be whipped and to be put to death on the cross : and the third day he will come back again from the dead .
20 Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to him with her sons , giving him worship and making a request of him .
21 And he said to her , What is your desire ? She says to him , Let my two sons be seated , the one at your right hand , and the other at your left , in your kingdom .
22 But Jesus made answer and said , You have no idea what you are requesting . Are you able to take of the cup which I am about to take ?
23 They say to him , We are able . He says to them , Truly , you will take of my cup : but to be seated at my right hand and at my left is not for me to give , but it is for those for whom my Father has made it ready .
24 And when it came to the ears of the ten , they were angry with the two brothers .
25 But Jesus said to them , You see that the rulers of the Gentiles are lords over them , and their great ones have authority over them .
26 Let it not be so among you : but if anyone has a desire to become great among you , let him be your servant ;
27 And whoever has a desire to be first among you , let him take the lowest place :
28 Even as the Son of man did not come to have servants , but to be a servant , and to give his life for the salvation of men .
29 And when they were going out from Jericho , a great number went after him .
30 And two blind men seated by the wayside , when they had the news that Jesus was going by , gave a loud cry , saying , Lord , Son of David , have mercy on us .
31 And the people gave them orders to be quiet ; but they went on crying even louder , Lord , Son of David , have mercy on us .
32 And Jesus , stopping , sent for them , and said , What would you have me do to you ?
33 They say to him , Lord , that our eyes may be open .
34 And Jesus , being moved with pity , put his fingers on their eyes : and straight away they were able to see , and went after him .
Matthew 21
1 And when they were near Jerusalem , and had come to Beth-phage , to the Mountain of Olives , Jesus sent two disciples ,
2 Saying to them , Go into the little town in front of you , and straight away you will see an ass with a cord round her neck , and a young one with her ; let them loose and come with them to me .
3 And if anyone says anything to you , you will say , The Lord has need of them ; and straight away he will send them .
4 - 5 Now this took place so that these words of the prophet might come true ,Say to the daughter of Zion , See , your King comes to you , gentle and seated on an ass , and on a young ass .
6 And the disciples went and did as Jesus had given them orders ,
7 And got the ass and the young one , and put their clothing on them , and he took his seat on it .
8 And all the people put their clothing down in the way ; and others got branches from the trees , and put them down in the way .
9 And those who went before him , and those who came after , gave loud cries , saying , Glory to the Son of David : A blessing on him who comes in the name of the Lord : Glory in the highest .
10 And when he came into Jerusalem , all the town was moved , saying , Who is this ?
11 And the people said , This is the prophet Jesus , from Nazareth of Galilee .
12 And Jesus went into the Temple and sent out all who were trading there , overturning the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those trading in doves .
13 And he said to them , It is in the Writings , My house is to be named a house of prayer , but you are making it a hole of thieves .
14 And the blind and the broken in body came to him in the Temple , and he made them well .
15 But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the works of power which he did , and the children crying out in the Temple , Glory to the son of David , they were angry and said to him ,
16 Have you any idea what these are saying ? And Jesus said to them , Yes : have you not seen in the Writings , From the lips of children and babies at the breast you have made your praise complete ?
17 And he went away from them , and went out of the town to Bethany , and was there for the night .
18 Now in the morning when he was coming back to the town , he had a desire for food .
19 And seeing a fig-tree by the wayside , he came to it , and saw nothing on it but leaves only ; and he said to it , Let there be no fruit from you from this time forward for ever . And straight away the fig-tree became dry and dead .
20 And when the disciples saw it they were surprised , saying , How did the fig-tree become dry in so short a time ?
21 - 22 And Jesus in answer said to them , Truly I say to you , If you have faith , without doubting , not only may you do what has been done to the fig-tree , but even if you say to this mountain , Be taken up and put into the sea , it will be done , And all things , whatever you make request for in prayer , having faith , you will get .
23 And when he had come into the Temple , the chief priests and those in authority over the people came to him while he was teaching , and said , By what authority do you do these things ? and who gave you this authority ?
24 And Jesus said to them in answer , I will put one question to you , and if you give me the answer , I will say by what authority I do these things .
25 The baptism of John , where did it come from ? from heaven or from men ? And they were reasoning among themselves , saying , If we say , From heaven ; he will say to us , Why then did you not have faith in him ?
26 But if we say , From men ; we are in fear of the people , because all take John to be a prophet .
27 And they made answer and said , We have no idea . Then he said to them , And I will not say to you by what authority I do these things .
28 But how does it seem to you ? A man had two sons ; and he came to the first , and said , Son , go and do work today in the vine-garden .
29 And he said in answer , I will not : but later , changing his decision , he went .
30 And he came to the second and said the same . And he made answer and said , I go , sir : and went not .
31 Which of the two did his father's pleasure ? They say , The first . Jesus said to them , Truly I say to you , that tax-farmers and loose women are going into the kingdom of God before you .
32 For John came to you in the way of righteousness , and you had no faith in him , but the tax-farmers and the loose women had faith in him : and you , when you saw it , did not even have regret for your sins , so as to have faith in him .
33 Give ear to another story . A master of a house made a vine garden , and put a wall round it , and made a place for crushing out the wine , and made a tower , and let it out to field-workers , and went into another country .
34 And when the time for the fruit came near , he sent his servants to the workmen , to get the fruit .
35 And the workmen made an attack on his servants , giving blows to one , putting another to death , and stoning another .
36 Again , he sent other servants more in number than the first : and they did the same to them .
37 But after that he sent his son to them , saying , They will have respect for my son .
38 But when the workmen saw the son , they said among themselves , This is he who will one day be the owner of the property ; come , let us put him to death and take his heritage .
39 And they took him and , driving him out of the vine-garden , put him to death .
40 When , then , the lord of the vine-garden comes , what will he do to those workmen ?
41 They say to him , He will put those cruel men to a cruel death , and will let out the vine-garden to other workmen , who will give him the fruit when it is ready .
42 Jesus says to them , Did you never see in the Writings , The stone which the builders put on one side , the same has been made the chief stone of the building : this was the Lord's doing , and it is a wonder in our eyes ?
43 For this reason I say to you , The kingdom of God will be taken away from you , and will be given to a nation producing the fruits of it .
44 Any man falling on this stone will be broken , but he on whom it comes down will be crushed to dust .
45 And when his stories came to the ears of the chief priests and the Pharisees , they saw that he was talking of them .
46 And though they had a desire to take him , they were in fear of the people , because in their eyes he was a prophet .
Matthew 22
1 And Jesus , talking to them again in stories , said :
2 The kingdom of heaven is like a certain king , who made a feast when his son was married ,
3 And sent out his servants to get in the guests to the feast : and they would not come .
4 Again he sent out other servants , with orders to say to the guests , See , I have made ready my feast : my oxen and my fat beasts have been put to death , and all things are ready : come to the feast .
5 But they gave no attention , and went about their business , one to his farm , another to his trade :
6 And the rest put violent hands on his servants , and did evil to them , and put them to death .
7 But the king was angry ; and he sent his armies , and those who had put his servants to death he gave to destruction , burning down their town with fire .
8 Then he said to his servants , The feast is ready but the guests were not good enough .
9 Go then to the cross-roads , and get all those whom you see to come to the bride-feast .
10 And those servants went out into the streets , and got together all those whom they came across , bad and good : and the feast was full of guests .
11 But when the king came in to see the guests , he saw there a man who had not on a guest's robe ;
12 And he says to him , Friend , how came you in here not having a guest's robe ? And he had nothing to say .
13 Then the king said to the servants , Put cords round his hands and feet and put him out into the dark ; there will be weeping and cries of sorrow .
14 For out of all to whom the good news has come , only a small number will get salvation .
15 Then the Pharisees went and had a meeting to see how they might make use of his words to take him .
16 And they sent to him their disciples , with the Herodians , saying , Master , we see that you are true , and that you are teaching the true way of God , and have no fear of anyone , because you have no respect for a man's position .
17 Give us , then , your opinion of this : Is it right to give tax to Caesar , or not ?
18 But Jesus saw their trick and said , Oh false ones , why are you attempting to put me in the wrong ?
19 Let me see the tax money . And they gave him a penny .
20 And he said to them , Whose is this image and name on it ?
21 They say to him , Caesar's . Then he said to them , Give to Caesar the things which are Caesar's , and to God the things which are God's .
22 And hearing it , they were full of wonder , and went away from him .
23 On the same day there came to him the Sadducees , who say that there is no coming back from the dead : and they put a question to him , saying ,
24 Master , Moses said , If a man , at the time of his death , has no children , let his brother take his wife , and get a family for his brother ;
25 Now there were among us seven brothers ; and the first was married and at his death , having no seed , gave his wife to his brother ;
26 In the same way the second and the third , up to the seventh .
27 And last of all the woman came to her end .
28 When they come back from the dead , then , whose wife will she be of the seven ? because they all had her .
29 But Jesus said to them in answer , You are in error , not having knowledge of the Writings , or of the power of God .
30 For when they come back from the dead there are no husbands and wives , but they are as the angels in heaven .
31 - 32 But about the dead coming back to life , have you no knowledge of what was said to you by God in the Writings : i am the God of Abraham , and the God of Isaac , and the God of Jacob ? God is not the God of the dead but of the living .
33 And the people hearing it were surprised at his teaching .
34 But the Pharisees , hearing how the mouths of the Sadducees had been stopped , came together ;
35 - 36 And one of them , a teacher of the law , put a question to him , testing him , and saying , Master , which is the chief rule in the law ?
37 And he said to him , Have love for the Lord your God with all your heart , and with all your soul , and with all your mind .
38 This is the first and greatest rule .
39 And a second like it is this , Have love for your neighbour as for yourself .
40 On these two rules all the law and the prophets are based .
41 Now while the Pharisees were together , Jesus put a question to them , saying ,
42 What is your opinion of the Christ ? whose son is he ? They say to him , The Son of David .
43 - 44 He says to them , How then does David in the Spirit give him the name of Lord , saying , the Lord said to my Lord , Be seated at my right hand , till I put under your feet all those who are against you ?
45 If David then gives him the name of Lord , how is he his son ?
46 And no one was able to give him an answer , and so great was their fear of him , that from that day no one put any more questions to him .
Matthew 23
1 Then Jesus said to the people and to his disciples :
2 The scribes and the Pharisees have the authority of Moses ;
3 All things , then , which they give you orders to do , these do and keep : but do not take their works as your example , for they say and do not .
4 They make hard laws and put great weights on men's backs ; but they themselves will not put a finger to them .
5 But all their works they do so as to be seen by men : for they make wide their phylacteries , and the edges of their robes ,
6 And the things desired by them are the first places at feasts , and the chief seats in the Synagogues ,
7 And words of respect in the market - places , and to be named by men , Teacher .
8 But you may not be named Teacher : for one is your teacher , and you are all brothers .
9 And give no man the name of father on earth : because one is your Father , who is in heaven .
10 And you may not be named guides : because one is your Guide , even Christ .
11 But let the greatest among you be your servant .
12 And whoever makes himself high will be made low , and whoever makes himself low will be made high .
13 But a curse is on you , scribes and Pharisees , false ones ! because you are shutting the kingdom of heaven against men : for you do not go in yourselves , and those who are going in , you keep back .
14 A curse is on you , scribes and pharisees , false ones ! for you devour windows' houses , and for a pretence make long prayer : therefore you shall receive the greater damnation .
15 A curse is on you , scribes and Pharisees , false ones ! for you go about land and sea to get one disciple and , having him , you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourselves .
16 A curse is on you , blind guides , who say , Whoever takes an oath by the Temple , it is nothing ; but whoever takes an oath by the gold of the Temple , he is responsible .
17 You foolish ones and blind : which is greater , the gold , or the Temple which makes the gold holy ?
18 And , Whoever takes an oath by the altar , it is nothing ; but whoever takes an oath by the offering which is on it , he is responsible .
19 You blind ones : which is greater , the offering , or the altar which makes the offering holy ?
20 He , then , who takes an oath by the altar , takes it by the altar and by all things on it .
21 And he who takes an oath by the Temple , takes it by the Temple and by him whose house it is .
22 And he who takes an oath by heaven , takes it by the seat of God , and by him who is seated on it .
23 A curse is on you , scribes and Pharisees , false ones ! for you make men give a tenth of all sorts of sweet-smelling plants , but you give no thought to the more important things of the law , righteousness , and mercy , and faith ; but it is right for you to do these , and not to let the others be undone .
24 You blind guides , who take out a fly from your drink , but make no trouble over a camel .
25 A curse is on you , scribes and Pharisees , false ones ! for you make clean the outside of the cup and of the plate , but inside they are full of violent behaviour and uncontrolled desire .
26 You blind Pharisee , first make clean the inside of the cup and of the plate , so that the outside may become equally clean .
27 A curse is on you , scribes and Pharisees , false ones ! for you are like the resting-places of the dead , which are made white , and seem beautiful on the outside , but inside are full of dead men's bones and of all unclean things .
28 Even so you seem to men to be full of righteousness , but inside you are all false and full of wrongdoing .
29 A curse is on you , scribes and Pharisees , false ones ! because you put up buildings for housing the dead bodies of the prophets , and make fair the last resting-places of good men , and say ,
30 If we had been living in the days of our fathers , we would not have taken part with them in the blood of the prophets .
31 So that you are witnesses against yourselves that you are the sons of those who put the prophets to death .
32 Make full , then , the measure of your fathers .
33 You snakes , offspring of snakes , how will you be kept from the punishment of hell ?
34 For this reason , I send you prophets , and wise men , and scribes : some of them you will put to death and put on the cross , and to some of them you will give blows in your Synagogues , driving them from town to town ;
35 So that on you may come all the blood of the upright on the earth , from the blood of upright Abel to the blood of Zachariah , son of Barachiah , whom you put to death between the Temple and the altar .
36 Truly I say to you , All these things will come on this generation .
37 O Jerusalem , Jerusalem , putting to death the prophets , and stoning those who are sent to her ! Again and again would I have taken your children to myself as a bird takes her young ones under her wings , and you would not !
38 - 39 See , your house is made waste , for I say to you , You will not see me from this time till you say , A blessing on him who comes in the name of the Lord .
Matthew 24
1 And Jesus went out of the Temple , and on the way his disciples came to him , pointing out the buildings of the Temple .
2 But he , answering , said to them , See you not all these things ? truly I say to you that here there will not be one stone resting on another , which will not be pulled down .
3 And while he was seated on the Mountain of Olives , the disciples came to him privately , saying , Make clear to us , when will these things be ? and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the world ?
4 And Jesus said to them in answer , Take care that you are not tricked .
5 For people will come in my name , saying , I am the Christ ; and a number will be turned from the true way through them .
6 And news will come to you of wars and talk of wars : do not be troubled , for these things have to be ; but it is still not the end .
7 For nation will be moved against nation , and kingdom against kingdom , and men will be without food , and the earth will be shaking in different places ;
8 But all these things are the first of the troubles .
9 Then they will be cruel to you , and will put you to death : and you will be hated by all nations because of my name .
10 And numbers of people will be turned from the right way , and will give one another up and have hate for one another .
11 And a number of false prophets will come , causing error .
12 And because wrongdoing will be increased , the love of most people will become cold .
13 But he who goes through to the end will get salvation .
14 And this good news of the kingdom will be given through all the world for a witness to all nations ; and then the end will come .
15 When , then , you see in the holy place the unclean thing which makes destruction , of which word was given by Daniel the prophet (let this be clear to the reader) ,
16 Then let those who are in Judaea go in flight to the mountains :
17 Let not him who is on the house-top go down to take anything out of his house :
18 And let not him who is in the field go back to get his coat .
19 But it will be hard for women who are with child and for those with babies at the breast in those days .
20 - 21 And say a prayer that your flight may not be in the winter , or on a Sabbath , because in those days there will be great sorrow , such as there has not been from the start of the world till now , or ever will be .
22 And if those days had not been made short there would have been no salvation for any , but because of the saints those days will be made short .
23 Then if any man says to you , See , here is the Christ , or , Here ; do not put faith in him ;
24 For there will come up false Christs , and false prophets , who will do great signs and wonders ; so that if possible even the saints might be tricked .
25 See , I have made it clear to you before it comes about .
26 If , then , they say to you , See , he is in the waste land ; go not out : See , he is in the inner rooms ; put no faith in it .
27 Because as in a thunderstorm the bright light coming from the east is seen even in the west ; so will be the coming of the Son of man .
28 Wherever the dead body is , there will the eagles come together .
29 But straight away , after the trouble of those days , the sun will be made dark and the moon will not give her light and the stars will come down from heaven and the powers of heaven will be moved :
30 And then the sign of the Son of man will be seen in heaven : and then all the nations of the earth will have sorrow , and they will see the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory .
31 And he will send out his angels with a great sound of a horn , and they will get his saints together from the four winds , from one end of heaven to the other .
32 Now take an example from the fig-tree : when her branch has become soft and puts out its leaves , you are certain that the summer is near ;
33 Even so , when you see all these things , you may be certain that he is near , even at the doors .
34 Truly I say to you , This generation will not come to an end till all these things are complete .
35 Heaven and earth will come to an end , but my words will not come to an end .
36 But of that day and hour no one has knowledge , not even the angels in heaven , or the Son , but the Father only .
37 And as were the days of Noah , so will be the coming of the Son of man .
38 Because as in those days before the overflowing of the waters , they were feasting and taking wives and getting married , till the day when Noah went into the ark ,
39 And they had no care till the waters came and took them all away ; so will be the coming of the Son of man .
40 Then two men will be in the field ; one is taken , and one let go ;
41 Two women will be crushing grain ; one is taken , and one let go .
42 Be watching , then ! for you have no knowledge on what day your Lord will come .
43 But be certain of this , that if the master of the house had had knowledge of the time when the thief was coming , he would have been watching , and would not have let his house be broken into .
44 Be ready then ; for at a time which you have no thought of the Son of man will come .
45 Who is the true and wise servant , whom his lord has put over those in his house , to give them their food at the right time ?
46 A blessing on that servant , who will be doing so when his lord comes .
47 Truly , I say to you , he will put him over all he has .
48 But if that evil servant says in his heart , My lord is a long time in coming ;
49 And is cruel to the other servants , taking his pleasure with those who are overcome with wine ;
50 The lord of that servant will come in a day when he is not looking for him , and in an hour of which he has no knowledge ,
51 And will have him cut in two , and will give him a part in the fate of the false ones : there will be weeping and cries of sorrow .
Matthew 25
1 Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins , the friends of the bride , who took their lights , and went out with the purpose of meeting the husband .
2 And five of them were foolish , and five were wise .
3 For the foolish , when they took their lights , took no oil with them .
4 But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lights .
5 Now the husband was a long time in coming , and they all went to sleep .
6 But in the middle of the night there is a cry , The husband comes ! Go out to him .
7 Then all those virgins got up , and made ready their lights .
8 And the foolish said to the wise , Give us of your oil ; for our lights are going out .
9 But the wise made answer , saying , There may not be enough for us and you ; it would be better for you to go to the traders and get oil for yourselves .
10 And while they went to get oil , the master came ; and those who were ready went in with him to the feast : and the door was shut .
11 After that the other virgins came , saying , Lord , Lord , let us in .
12 But he made answer and said , Truly I say to you , I have no knowledge of you .
13 Keep watch , then , because you are not certain of the day or of the hour .
14 For it is as when a man , about to take a journey , got his servants together , and gave them his property .
15 And to one he gave five talents , to another two , to another one ; to everyone as he was able ; and he went on his journey .
16 Straight away he who had been given the five talents went and did trade with them , and made five more .
17 In the same way he who had been given the two got two more .
18 But he who was given the one went away and put it in a hole in the earth , and kept his lord's money in a secret place .
19 Now after a long time the lord of those servants comes , and makes up his account with them .
20 And he who had the five talents came with his other five talents , saying , Lord , you gave into my care five talents : see , I have got five more .
21 His lord said to him , Well done , good and true servant : you have been true in a small thing , I will give you control over great things : take your part in the joy of your lord .
22 And he who had the two talents came and said , Lord , you gave into my care two talents : see , I have got two more .
23 His lord said to him , Well done , good and true servant : you have been true in a small thing , I will give you control over great things : take your part in the joy of your lord .
24 And he who had had the one talent came and said , Lord , I had knowledge that you are a hard man , getting in grain where you have not put seed , and making profits for which you have done no work :
25 And I was in fear , and went away , and put your talent in the earth : here is what is yours .
26 But his lord in answer said to him , You are a bad and unready servant ; if you had knowledge that I get in grain where I did not put seed , and make profits for which I have done no work ,
27 Why , then , did you not put my money in the bank , and at my coming I would have got back what is mine with interest ?
28 Take away , then , his talent and give it to him who has the ten talents .
29 For to everyone who has will be given , and he will have more : but from him who has not , even what he has will be taken away .
30 And put out the servant who is of no profit into the outer dark : there will be weeping and cries of sorrow .
31 But when the Son of man comes in his glory , and all the angels with him , then will he be seated in his glory :
32 And before him all the nations will come together ; and they will be parted one from another , as the sheep are parted from the goats by the keeper .
33 And he will put the sheep on his right , but the goats on the left .
34 Then will the King say to those on his right , Come , you who have the blessing of my Father , into the kingdom made ready for you before the world was :
35 For I was in need of food , and you gave it to me : I was in need of drink , and you gave it to me : I was wandering , and you took me in ;
36 I had no clothing , and you gave it to me : when I was ill , or in prison , you came to me .
37 Then will the upright make answer to him , saying , Lord , when did we see you in need of food , and give it to you ? or in need of drink , and give it to you ?
38 And when did we see you wandering , and take you in ? or without clothing , and give it to you ?
39 And when did we see you ill , or in prison , and come to you ?
40 And the King will make answer and say to them , Truly I say to you , Because you did it to the least of these my brothers , you did it to me .
41 Then will he say to those on the left , Go from me , you cursed ones , into the eternal fire which is ready for the Evil One and his angels :
42 For I was in need of food , and you gave it not to me ; I was in need of drink , and you gave it not to me :
43 I was wandering , and you took me not in ; without clothing , and you gave me no clothing ; ill , and in prison , and you came not to me .
44 Then will they make answer , saying , Lord , when did we see you in need of food or drink , or wandering , or without clothing , or ill , or in prison , and did not take care of you ?
45 Then will he make answer to them , saying , Truly I say to you , Because you did it not to the least of these , you did it not to me .
46 And these will go away into eternal punishment ; but the upright into eternal life .
Matthew 26
1 And when Jesus had come to the end of all these words , he said to his disciples ,
2 After two days is the Passover , and the Son of man will be given up to the death of the cross .
3 Then the chief priests and the rulers of the people came together in the house of the high priest , who was named Caiaphas .
4 And they made designs together to take Jesus by some trick , and put him to death .
5 But they said , Not while the feast is going on , for fear of trouble among the people .
6 Now when Jesus was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper ,
7 There came to him a woman having a bottle of perfume of great price , and she put the perfume on his head when he was seated at table .
8 But when the disciples saw it they were angry , saying , To what purpose is this waste ?
9 For we might have got much money for this and given it to the poor .
10 But Jesus , seeing it , said to them , Why are you troubling the woman ? she has done a kind act to me .
11 For the poor you have ever with you , but me you have not for ever .
12 For in putting this perfume on my body , she did it to make me ready for my last resting-place .
13 Truly I say to you , Wherever this good news goes out in all the world , what this woman has done will be talked of in memory of her .
14 Then one of the twelve , who was named Judas Iscariot , went to the chief priests and said ,
15 What will you give me , if I give him up to you ? And the price was fixed at thirty bits of silver .
16 And from that time he was watching for a chance to give him into their hands .
17 Now on the first day of unleavened bread the disciples came to Jesus , saying , Where are we to make ready for you to take the Passover meal ?
18 And he said to them , Go into the town to such a man , and say to him , The Master says , My time is near : I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples .
19 And the disciples did as Jesus had said to them ; and they made ready the Passover .
20 Now when evening was come , he was seated at table with the twelve disciples ;
21 And while they were taking food , he said , Truly I say to you that one of you will be false to me .
22 And they were very said , and said to him , one by one , Is it I , Lord ?
23 And he made answer and said , He who puts his hand into the plate with me , the same will be false to me .
24 The Son of man goes , even as the Writings say of him : but a curse is on that man through whom the Son of man is given up ; it would have been well for that man if he had never come into the world .
25 And Judas , who was false to him , made answer and said , Is it I , Master ? He says to him , Yes .
26 And when they were taking food , Jesus took bread and , after blessing it , he gave the broken bread to the disciples and said , Take it ; this is my body .
27 - 28 And he took a cup and , having given praise , he gave it to them , saying , take of it , all of you , for this is my blood of the testament , which is given for men for the forgiveness of sins .
29 But I say to you that from now I will not take of this fruit of the vine , till that day when I take it new with you in my Father's kingdom .
30 And after a song of praise to God , they went out to the Mountain of Olives .
31 Then said Jesus to them , All of you will be turned away from me this night : for it is said in the Writings , I will put to death the keeper of the sheep , and the sheep of the flock will be put to flight .
32 But after I am come back from the dead , I will go before you into Galilee .
33 But Peter made answer and said to him , Though all may be turned away from you , I will never be turned away .
34 Jesus said to him , Truly I say to you that this night , before the hour of the cock's cry , you will say three times that you have no knowledge of me .
35 Peter says to him , Even if I am put to death with you , I will not be false to you . So said all the disciples .
36 Then comes Jesus with them to a place named Gethsemane , and says to his disciples , Be seated here , while I go over there for prayer .
37 And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee , and became sad and very troubled .
38 Then says he to them , My soul is very sad , even to death : keep watch with me here .
39 And he went forward a little , and falling down on his face in prayer , he said , O my Father , if it is possible , let this cup go from me ; but let not my pleasure , but yours be done .
40 And he comes to the disciples , and sees that they are sleeping , and says to Peter , What , were you not able to keep watch with me one hour ?
41 Keep watch with prayer , so that you may not be put to the test : the spirit truly is ready , but the flesh is feeble .
42 Again , a second time he went away , and said in prayer , O my Father , if this may not go from me without my taking it , let your pleasure be done .
43 And he came again and saw them sleeping , for their eyes were tired .
44 And he went away from them again , and a third time said the same prayer .
45 Then he comes to the disciples ; and says to them , Go on sleeping now , and take your rest : for the hour is come , and the Son of man is given into the hands of evil men .
46 Up , let us be going : see , he who gives me up is near .
47 And while he was still talking , Judas , one of the twelve , came , and with him a band armed with swords and sticks , from the chief priests and those in authority over the people .
48 Now the false one had given them a sign saying , The one to whom I give a kiss , that is he : take him .
49 And straight away he came to Jesus and said , Master ! and gave him a kiss .
50 And Jesus said to him , Friend , do that for which you have come . Then they came and put hands on Jesus , and took him .
51 And one of those who were with Jesus put out his hand , and took out his sword and gave the servant of the high priest a blow , cutting off his ear .
52 Then says Jesus to him , Put up your sword again into its place : for all those who take the sword will come to death by the sword .
53 Does it not seem possible to you that if I make request to my Father he will even now send me an army of angels ?
54 But how then would the Writings come true , which say that so it has to be ?
55 In that hour Jesus said to the people , Have you come out as against a thief with swords and sticks to take me ? I was teaching every day in the Temple and you took me not .
56 But all this has taken place so that the writings of the prophets might come true . Then all his disciples went from him in flight .
57 And those who had made Jesus prisoner took him away to the house of Caiaphas , the high priest , where the scribes and those in authority over the people had come together .
58 But Peter went after him at a distance , to the house of the high priest , and went in and took his seat with the servants , to see the end .
59 Now the chief priests and all the Sanhedrin were looking for false witness against Jesus , so that they might put him to death ;
60 And they were not able to get it , though a number of false witnesses came .
61 But later there came two who said , This man said , I am able to give the Temple of God to destruction , and to put it up again in three days .
62 And the high priest got up and said to him , Have you no answer ? what is it which these say against you ?
63 But Jesus said not a word . And the high priest said to him , I put you on oath , by the living God , that you will say to us if you are the Christ , the Son of God .
64 Jesus says to him , You say so : but I say to you , From now you will see the Son of man seated at the right hand of power , and coming on the clouds of heaven .
65 - 66 Then the high priest , violently parting his robes , said , He has said evil against God : what more need have we of witnesses ? for now his words against God have come to your ears : What is your opinion ? They made answer and said , It is right for him to be put to death .
67 Then they put shame on him , and were cruel to him : and some gave him blows , saying ,
68 Be a prophet , O Christ , and say who gave you a blow !
69 Now Peter was seated in the open square outside the house : and a servant-girl came to him , saying , You were with Jesus the Galilaean .
70 But he said before them all that it was false , saying , I have no knowledge of what you say .
71 And when he had gone out into the doorway , another saw him and says to those who were there , This man was with Jesus the Nazarene .
72 And again he said with an oath , I have no knowledge of the man .
73 And after a little time those who were near came and said to Peter , Truly you are one of them ; because your talk is witness against you .
74 Then with curses and oaths he said , I have no knowledge of the man . And straight away there came the cry of a cock .
75 And the word of Jesus came back to Peter , when he said , Before the hour of the cock's cry , you will say three times that you have no knowledge of me . And he went out , weeping bitterly .
Matthew 27
1 Now when it was morning , all the chief priests and those in authority took thought together with the purpose of putting Jesus to death .
2 And they put cords on him and took him away , and gave him up to Pilate , the ruler .
3 - 4 Then Judas , who was false to him , seeing that he was to be put to death , in his regret took back the thirty bits of silver to the chief priests and those in authority , saying , I have done wrong in giving into your hands an upright man . But they said , What is that to us ? it is your business .
5 And he put down the silver in the Temple and went out , and put himself to death by hanging .
6 And the chief priests took the silver and said , It is not right to put it in the Temple store for it is the price of blood .
7 And they made a decision to get with the silver the potter's field , as a place for the dead of other countries .
8 For this cause that field was named , The field of blood , to this day .
9 - 10 Then came true that which was said by Jeremiah the prophet , And they took the thirty bits of silver , the price of him who was valued by the children of Israel ; and they gave them for the potter's field , as I had word from the Lord .
11 And Jesus was before the ruler , who put a question to him , Are you the King of the Jews ? And Jesus said to him , You say so .
12 But when the chief priests and those in authority made statements against him , he gave no answer .
13 Then says Pilate to him , Do you give no attention to what their witnesses say against you ?
14 And he gave him no answer , not even a word : so that the ruler was greatly surprised .
15 Now at the feast it was the way for the ruler to let free to the people one prisoner , at their selection .
16 And they had then an important prisoner , whose name was Barabbas .
17 - 18 So when they came together , Pilate said to them , Whom will you have ? Barabbas , or Jesus , who is named Christ ? For he saw that for envy they had given him up .
19 And while he was on the judge's seat , his wife sent to him , saying , Have nothing to do with that upright man , for I have had much trouble this day in a dream because of him .
20 Now the chief priests and those in authority got the people to make request for Barabbas , and for Jesus to be put to death .
21 But the ruler made answer and said to them , Which of the two is it your pleasure that I let go free ? And they said , Barabbas .
22 Pilate says to them , What , then , am I to do with Jesus , who is named Christ ? They all say , Let him be put to death on the cross .
23 And he said , Why , what evil has he done ? But they gave loud cries , saying , To the cross with him !
24 So when Pilate saw that he was able to do nothing , but that trouble was working up , he took water and , washing his hands before the people , said , The blood of this upright man is not on my hands : you are responsible .
25 And all the people made answer and said , Let his blood be on us , and on our children .
26 Then he let Barabbas go free : but after having Jesus whipped , he gave him up to be put to death on the cross .
27 Then the ruler's armed men took Jesus into the open square , and got all their band together .
28 And they took off his clothing , and put on him a red robe .
29 And they made a crown of thorns and put it on his head , and put a rod in his right hand , and they went down on their knees before him , and made sport of him , saying , Long life to the King of the Jews .
30 And they put shame on him , and gave him blows on the head with the rod .
31 And when they had made sport of him , they took the robe off him , and put his clothing on him , and took him away to put him on the cross .
32 And while they were coming out , they saw a man of Cyrene , Simon by name , and they made him go with them , so that he might take up his cross .
33 And when they came to the place named Golgotha , that is to say , Dead Man's Head ,
34 They gave him wine mixed with bitter drink : and after tasting it , he took no more .
35 And when they had put him on the cross , they made division of his clothing among them by the decision of chance .
36 And they were seated there watching him .
37 And they put up over his head the statement of his crime in writing , THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS .
38 Then two thieves were put on crosses with him , one on the right and one on the left .
39 - 40 And those who went by said bitter words to him , shaking their heads and saying , you who would give the Temple to destruction and put it up again in three days , get yourself free : if you are the Son of God , come down from the cross .
41 In the same way , the chief priests , making sport of him , with the scribes and those in authority , said ,
42 A saviour of others , he has no salvation for himself . If he is the King of Israel , let him now come down from the cross , and we will have faith in him .
43 He put his faith in God ; let God be his saviour now , if he will have him ; for he said , I am the Son of God .
44 And the thieves who were on the crosses said evil words to him .
45 Now from the sixth hour it was dark over all the land till the ninth hour .
46 And about the ninth hour Jesus gave a loud cry , saying , Eli , Eli , lama sabachthani ? that is , My God , my God , why are you turned away from me ?
47 And some of those who were near by , hearing it , said , This man is crying to Elijah .
48 And straight away one of them went quickly , and took a sponge , and made it full of bitter wine , and put it on a rod and gave him drink .
49 And the rest said , Let him be ; let us see if Elijah will come to his help .
50 And Jesus gave another loud cry , and gave up his spirit .
51 And the curtain of the Temple was parted in two from end to end ; and there was an earth-shock ; and the rocks were broken ;
52 And the resting-places of the dead came open ; and the bodies of a number of sleeping saints came to life ;
53 And coming out of their resting-places , after he had come again from the dead , they went into the holy town and were seen by a number of people .
54 Now the captain and those who were with him watching Jesus , when they saw the earth-shock and the things which were done , were in great fear and said , Truly this was a son of God .
55 And a number of women were there , watching from a distance , who had come with Jesus from Galilee , waiting on his needs .
56 Among whom was Mary Magdalene , and Mary , the mother of James and Joses , and the mother of the sons of Zebedee .
57 And in the evening , there came a man of wealth from Arimathaea , Joseph by name , who was a disciple of Jesus :
58 This man went in to Pilate , and made a request for the body of Jesus . Then Pilate gave orders for it to be given to him .
59 And Joseph took the body , folding it in clean linen ,
60 And put it in the resting-place which had been cut out of the rock for himself ; and after rolling a great stone to the door of it he went away .
61 And Mary Magdalene was there , and the other Mary , seated by the place of the dead .
62 Now on the day after the getting ready of the Passover , the chief priests and Pharisees came together to Pilate ,
63 Saying , Sir , we have in mind how that false man said , while he was still living , After three days I will come again from the dead .
64 Give orders , then , that the place where his body is may be made safe till the third day , for fear that his disciples come and take him away secretly and say to the people , He has come back from the dead : and the last error will be worse than the first .
65 Pilate said to them , You have watchmen ; go and make it as safe as you are able .
66 So they went , and made safe the place where his body was , putting a stamp on the stone , and the watchmen were with them .
Matthew 28
1 Now late on the Sabbath , when the dawn of the first day of the week was near , Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the place where his body was .
2 And there was a great earth-shock ; for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven and , rolling back the stone , took his seat on it .
3 His form was shining like the light , and his clothing was white as snow :
4 And for fear of him the watchmen were shaking , and became as dead men .
5 And the angel said to the women , Have no fear : for I see that you are searching for Jesus , who was put to death on the cross .
6 He is not here , for he has come to life again , even as he said . Come , see the Lord's resting-place .
7 And go quickly and give his disciples the news that he has come back from the dead , and is going before you into Galilee ; there you will see him , as I have said to you .
8 And they went away quickly , with fear and great joy , to give his disciples the news .
9 And on the way , Jesus came to them , saying , Be glad . And they came and put their hands on his feet , and gave him worship .
10 Then said Jesus to them , Have no fear : go and give word to my brothers to go into Galilee , and there they will see me .
11 Now , while they were going , some of the watchmen came into the town and gave news to the chief priests of all the things which had taken place .
12 And when they had come together with those in authority , and had made their decision , they gave much money to the watchmen , saying ,
13 Say , His disciples came by night and took him away secretly while we were sleeping .
14 And if this comes to the ruler's ears , we will see that he does not make you responsible .
15 So they took the money , and did as they had been ordered : and this account has been current among the Jews till the present time .
16 But the eleven disciples went into Galilee , to the mountain where Jesus had given them orders to go .
17 And when they saw him they gave him worship : but some were in doubt .
18 And Jesus came to them and said , All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth .
19 - 20 Go then , and make disciples of all the nations , giving them baptism in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit : teaching them to keep all the rules which I have given you : and see , I am ever with you , even to the end of the world .
Family reunification .
After your asylum application , you have received a residence permit . You want to reunite with your family members who are staying abroad . In that case , you can submit an application for family reunification . On this page , we explain briefly which conditions must be met , the course of the procedure , and what you can do to ensure that the procedure goes smoothly .
Which family members qualify ?
Are you 18 years of age or older and do you have an asylum residence permit ? In that case , you can apply for family reunification for the following family members :
Your adult spouse or unmarried partner with whom you are having a permanent and exclusive relationship . NB : Do you have more than one spouse or partner ? In that case , you will be allowed to bring only one partner together with the children you have with this partner .
Your minor child or your partner apos & ; s child if it belongs to your family . This applies to biological children but also to adoptive or foster children . Adult children who have always belonged to your family and who still belong to your family , who are not married and who do not have a relationship themselves also qualify .
Submission of an application for family reunification for asylum seekers is free of charge .
Are you younger than 18 years of age ?
If you are younger than 18 years of age and you have an asylum residence permit , you may apply for family reunification for your biological father and mother , minor brothers and sisters , and in some cases adult brothers and sisters . Different procedures and conditions apply to this case , and this may involve costs . Please contact your guardian or counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees and inquire after the possibilities .
Please note !
Three months to apply for family reunification .
The moment you have received your asylum residence permit , you must apply for family reunification within three months from the date of the decision . You are personally responsible for providing the correct information for your application . Because the application procedure is complicated , you can ask your counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees for help .
Conditions for family reunification .
If you want to apply for a residence permit for your family members , the following conditions must be met :
You must have an independent asylum residence permit .
You must submit your application within the journey in connection with family reunification period . This period lasts three months and starts on the date printed on your asylum residence permit . N . B : You must also submit the application within the journey in connection with family reunification period even if you did not have any contact with your family members recently or if they are missing .
Your family members were already part of your family abroad . This is called family ties .
You family members must be able to prove their identity and the family ties with you with documents . These documents must be official documents from the authorities in the country of origin .
You have mentioned your family members during the asylum procedure .
Do you submit an application for your minor child , and is the other biological parent staying behind ? In that case the parent staying behind must have given permission for your child apos & ; s departure to the Netherlands .
Please note !
Collect documents .
Collect as many documents required for the application as soon as possible . There are various documents which you can use to prove your family ties or identity , for example : passport , identity card , marriage certificate , and family book . The IND may require different documents for each country . Consult with your counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees which documents are necessary for your application . You are personally responsible for submitting all documents properly and in time . This is very important for a proper course of the procedure .
How long does the procedure take ?
The family reunification procedure consists of many different steps . Your counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees can assist you in the different steps . It may take several months to more than one year before the Immigration and Naturalisation Service IND decides on your application .
Please note !
Respond to questions from the IND in time .
It is important that you always respond to questions from the IND about your application in time . Did you receive post from the IND ? Go to your counsellor at the Dutch Council for Refugees .
After your family apos & ; s arrival :
If the family reunification has been approved and your family members have travelled to the Netherlands , they must report to the reception centre in Ter Apel . They will usually stay there for four days . During this stay , the IND will give them a dependent residence permit , which is valid for five years . Dependent means that their residence depends on your permit . If the IND decides to withdraw your asylum residence permit or not to renew it , the IND will also withdraw the permits of your family members . In that case , the IND will assess if they can get an asylum residence permit independently .
The IND may also withdraw the residence permits of your family members if the family ties stop . This may be the case if your family members no longer have a relationship with you . Or if your family member is a child that goes and live on his or her own within one year . The fact is that an obligation to live together applies .
Do your family members want to submit an independent application , for example because they have their own reasons for asking for asylum ? In that case , they can contact the Dutch Council for Refugees .
What can the Dutch Council for Refugees do for you ?
We give you information about the family reunification procedure and we can help you complete the application form .
We can maintain contact with the IND during the procedure on your behalf . For example : we can assist you in answering the questions from the IND about your family ties or in collecting evidence .
Sometimes , we can pay part of the travel expenses to the Netherlands for your family members . Please contact your counsellor to inquire after the possibilities .
Once your family members have arrived in the Netherlands and suitable housing has been found in the municipality , there are still many practical matters to be arranged . For example : applying for a benefit and allowances , taking out healthcare insurance , registering with a family doctor , dentist , and school . You can do all these things yourself , but you can also ask for assistance .
If your application is rejected , we can help you find a lawyer .
There are two types of animals .
An ant is a small animal .
Bears lives in cold weather .
We get honey from bee .
He saves the bird .
She has a cat .
My hen hatches 10 eggs .
i have a cow .
The dog barks .
The donkey drinks water from the dam .
The duck swims in the lake .
Africa is rich in elephants .
I love to eat fish .
The bird flies in the sky .
A giraffe has a long neck .
The goat eats every thing .
I ride a horse .
She hates rats .
The rabbit escapes from the dog .
lion is a powerful animal .
The black monkey lives in the tree .
Farmers use ox to plough .
pig is a dirty animal .
He rears an ewe .
I am afraid of a snake .
tiger preys weak animals .
There are lots of zebras in southern red sea .
Canary is a small bird .
Crow is a black bird .
Crow is a black bird .
Dove is a sign of peace .
Duck lives in water .
Eagle has sharp eyes .
Flamingo has a long head .
Do you see Hummingbird .
Ostrich is the biggest bird .
There are over 200 Owl species .
a Parrot can repeat words .
She eats a Pigeon .
Swan is a bird .
Toucan is an animal .
Turkey is delicious to eat .
Woodpecker is a small bird .
Bass is one type of fish .
Crayfish lives in an ocean .
Lobster is delicious and expensive .
Octopus is a dangerous .
Salmon is famous in japan .
Shark is dangerous animal
Have you seen Squid ?
Tuna is famous in Eritrea .
Garlic prevents many diseases .
Basil has nice odder .
Saffron can be used in tea .
Mustard is a type of seed .
Nutmeg cab used as food spices .
I like Parsley .
Black pepper is spicy .
Rosemary added in food as a spice .
He uses less Salt in food .
Sage grows in Eritrea .
Vinegar is sour .
Butterfly is beautiful .
I am afraid of Cockroaches .
Cricket is a noisy animal .
Dragonfly is famous in china .
Housefly is annoying .
You should be clean to avoid Lice .
Mosquito transmits malaria .
Scorpion is a poisonous .
Spider can create webs in the wall .
Baboon is a type of monkey .
Bat lives in dark caves .
Buffalo is a type of cow .
Bull lives in grass land .
Camel is the national symbol of Eritrea .
Cheetah is the fastest animal .
Chimpanzee lives in the forests .
Cow eats grass .
Deer lives in grassland .
She has a Dog .
Africa is in rich in Elephants .
Fox is an enemy of the sheep .
Gorilla is one type of a monkey .
Hippopotamus lives in water and dry land .
I ride a Horse .
I am afraid of Hyena .
Kangaroo lives in Australia .
Leopard is a strong animal .
Lion is considered as a king of animals .
I hate Mouse .
Panda lives in china .
The Rabbit escapes from a dog .
The Rat hides in the hole .
Rhinoceros is a powerful animal .
Sheep gives us milk .
Tiger is dangerous animal .
Alligator lives in lakes .
Crocodile eats meat .
Lizard is a small animal .
Snake is poisonous .
Tortoise is slow .
Turtle moves slowly .
I drink tea .
I drink coffee .
I drink mineral water .
Do you drink tea with lemon ?
Do you drink coffee with sugar ?
Do you drink water with ice ?
There is a party here .
People are drinking champagne .
People are drinking wine and beer .
Do you drink alcohol ?
Do you drink whisky ?
Do you drink Coke with rum ?
I do not like champagne .
I do not like wine .
I do not like beer .
The baby likes milk .
The child likes cocoa and apple juice .
The woman likes orange and grapefruit juice .
Snow is white .
The sun is yellow .
The orange is orange .
The cherry is red .
The sky is blue .
The grass is green .
The earth is brown .
The cloud is grey .
The tyres are black .
What colour is the snow ? White .
What colour is the sun ? Yellow .
What colour is the orange ? Orange .
What colour is the cherry ? Red .
What colour is the sky ? Blue .
What colour is the grass ? Green .
What colour is the earth ? Brown .
What colour is the cloud ? Grey .
What colour is the tyres ? Black .
I have a strawberry .
I have a kiwi and a melon .
I have an orange and a grapefruit .
I have an apple and a mango .
I have a banana and a pineapple .
I am making a fruit salad .
I am eating toast .
I am eating toast with butter .
I am eating toast with butter and jam .
I am eating a sandwich .
I am eating a sandwich with margarine .
I am eating a sandwich with margarine and tomatoes .
We need bread and rice .
We need fish and steaks .
We need pizza and spaghetti .
What else do we need ?
We need carrots and tomatoes for the soup .
Where is the supermarket ?
A Working Holiday in The Netherlands .
A Guide for Australians , New Zealanders and anyone in between !
The contents include : Home , Pre-Departure , Arrival , Suggestions Please !
Welcome to your adventure !
So you've made it to the Netherlands !
You might be jet lagged or not , enjoy your new surroundings - there's much to explore !
However , there is business you have got to attend to ,What business ?
Here is your checklist below for a smooth transition into Dutch life - this process took me a grand total of 5 months , Yes , 5 months !
I was frustrated that I was only given pieces of information instead of an easy checklist , so I hope this makes your life a little easier , and a great reference point should you need it !
The Grand Checklist .
Get some sleep !
You just flew from the otherside of the world You have earned it .
Your Visa .
Get a Dutch Mobile Number .
Open up a bank account .
Find a place to live .
Registration to a Dutch residential address .
Mandatory Dutch Health Insurance .
Finding a job .
Buy yourself a bicycle .
Your Personal travel card .
Extras :
Your Museum year card .
Dutch Language Courses .
Grand Checklist Details .
I will start from number 2 here .
So if you followed my pre-departure advice , you 'll just be waiting for your appointment time and you 'll have your bank statement , passport and Apostille stamped birth certificate ready .
If you didn 't , you &apos ll need to call the Immigration and Naturalisation Service on (+31) 08 043 04 30 to book your appointment .
Getting your citizen service number , have two options : Wait until you find somewhere to live and register or Register without an Address to your address abroad .
If you wait until you find a place to live , you basically cannot open up a bank account , So my advice to go this link and book yourself an appointment .
The average cost for 2GB of data per month is 15 euro .
They have what are called Monthly bundles .
So absolutely check that this is attached and that you have credit on your phone when the next month rolls over , otherwise it disconnects and you have to visit the store and reconnect it .
Generally , monthly bundles work in EU countries - but check details with your chosen provider .
So once you have your citizen service number , you will need to start exploring banks - again , But off the top of my head ; ABN Amro , RaboBank , ING etc .
You will need to call them and book an appointment , you generally just can't walk in , and don't even try between 12-2 pm when the staff are at lunch .
Finding a place to live : This is not always an easy task , but I found my place on a Facebook Housing group , So look up your local Facebook Housing groups and join them .
Beware , not all places allow registration and just know that this is required to get your health insurance after your get your visa processed .
So when you do find a place , you 'll need to ask the Main tenant about getting the form for registration .
Your housemate should explain the the procedure to you , but an appointment with the Town Hall or municipality will need to be booked and this can be done online or by phone .
They should send you an email with what you need to bring in terms of documents .
Once you are registered - because health insurance check your registration as part of the approval process , you need to purchase health insurance .
If you 're after dental , this usually costs an extra 10 euros per month or thereabouts , the same for optical .
If you have any questions , call the provider directly , Usually your first payment will be from the date issued on your visa or when you got your visa from the Immigration and Naturalisation Services .
Finding a job : Facebook networking groups of all kinds and getting your name out there is the best way .
If you are more a focused personality , the Netherlands is the second most popular country behind the U .S . to use LinkedIn , so if you haven't got one - get one !
They also use sites like Indeed , Glassdoor , and you will find additional tips on Dutch Review andvarious Expat websites .
Also , keep your eyes peeled for job fairs , they are always happening really regularly , so it's a great way to connect .
So to completely get the most authentic Dutch experience , you have to get a bicycle - not only will you get more fit , you save money on public transport .
So Join your local commodity market Facebook groups and look up Marktplaats , in my experience , it's been good .
Your Personal OV-Chipkaart , So once you have your bank account , you can to get 40% off on public transport during off-peak hours .
You will need to go to a customer service point at your nearest train station to get them to activate it for use on the trains , metro and trams .
Extras :
So if you're a museum buff like me , you can order your Museumjaarkaart .
The best thing about it is you get free access to over 400 museums for 12 months across the entire country .
If you're interested , click on this link : https ://www .museumkaart .nl/bestel .
Dutch Language Classes : So if you're into learning a bit of Dutch , like I am , you will want to attend classes .
There are so many options out there ; it's ridiculous in an awesome way .
The beginner level is A1-Niveau .
So look up to People's university or contact people on Facebook in community groups .
There's nothing more enriching like realising you actually understand the train station notifications word-for-word or when you go to a cafe or anywhere ask for anything in Dutch .
Pneumonia .
Pneumonia is an infection that inflames the air sacs in one or both lungs .
The air sacs may fill with fluid or pus , causing cough with phlegm or pus , fever , chills , and difficulty breathing .
A variety of organisms , including bacteria , viruses and fungi , can cause pneumonia .
Pneumonia can range in seriousness from mild to life - threatening .
It is most serious for infants and young children , people older than age 65 , and people with health problems or weakened immune systems .
Symptoms
The symptoms of pneumonia vary from mild to severe , depending on factors such as the type of germ causing the infection , and your age and overall health .
Mild symptoms often are similar to those of a cold or flu , but they last longer .
symptoms of pneumonia may include the following .
Chest pain when you breathe or cough .
Changes in mental awareness .
Cough , which may produce phlegm .
Fatigue .
Fever , sweating and shaking chills .
Lower than normal body temperature in adults older than age 65 and people with weak immune systems .
Nausea , vomiting or diarrhea .
Shortness of breath .
Newborns and infants may not show any sign of the infection .
Or they may vomit , have a fever and cough , be restless or tired , or have difficulty breathing and eating .
When to visit a doctor ?
Visit your doctor if you have difficulty breathing , chest pain , persistent fever 39 C or higher , or persistent cough , especially if you are coughing up pus .
It 's especially important that people in these high - risk groups visit a doctor .
Adults older than age 65 .
Children younger than age 2 with symptoms .
People with an underlying health condition or weakened immune system .
People receiving chemotherapy or taking medication that suppresses the immune system .
For some older adults and people with heart failure or chronic lung problems , pneumonia can quickly become a life - threatening condition .
Causes .
Many germs can cause pneumonia .
The most common are bacteria and viruses in the air we breathe .
Our body usually prevents these germs from infecting Our lungs .
But sometimes these germs can overpower your immune system , even if your health is generally good .
Pneumonia is classified according to the types of germs that cause it and where you got the infection .
Community - acquired pneumonia .
It is the most common type of pneumonia .
It occurs outside of hospitals or other health care facilities .
It may be caused by the following .
The most common cause of bacterial pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Mycoplasma pneumoniae also can cause pneumonia .
Walking pneumonia is an informal name given to this type of pneumonia , since it typically produces milder symptoms than do other types of pneumonia .
Fungal pneumonia is most common in people with chronic health problems or weakened immune systems , and in people who have inhaled large doses of the organisms .
Some of the viruses that cause colds and the flu can cause pneumonia .
Viral pneumonia is usually mild .
But in some cases it can become very serious .
Hospital - acquired pneumonia .
Some people catch pneumonia during a hospital stay for another illness .
Hospital - acquired pneumonia can be serious because the bacteria causing it may be more resistant to antibiotics and because the people who get it are already sick .
People who are on breathing machines , often used in intensive care units , are at higher risk of this type of pneumonia .
Risk factors
Pneumonia can affect anyone .
But the two age groups at highest risk are the following .
Children who are 2 years old or younger .
People who are age 65 or older .
Other risk factors include the following .
You are at greater risk of pneumonia if you are in a hospital intensive care unit , especially if you are on a machine that helps you breathe .
You are more likely to get pneumonia if you have asthma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or heart disease .
Smoking damages your body 's natural defenses against the bacteria and viruses that cause pneumonia .
People who have weakened or suppressed immune system due to HIV / AIDS , an organ transplant , chemotherapy or long - term steroid containing medicines are at risk .
Complications .
Even with treatment , some people with pneumonia , especially those in high - risk groups , may experience complications .
Bacteria in the bloodstream can spread the infection to other organs , potentially causing organ failure .
Fluid accumulation around the lungs .
Lung abscess .
Prevention .
To help prevent pneumonia .
Get vaccinated : vaccines are available to prevent some types of pneumonia and the flu .
Practice good hygiene .
Don 't smoke .
Keep your immune system strong .
ABOUT Travis Foundation
We are Travis Foundation .
We are working to digitise Tigrinya , specifically creating an English and Tigrinya translation .
To do this we need to collect a large amount of Tigrinya written language .
We invite you to share your opinions , thoughts and ideas on this page so that they can be included in our corpus .
This will be used by our language team but your names will not be included , only the words you write .
Thanks for being a part of our project to digitise Tigrinya !
Here 's a few things to keep in mind :
-We ask you to be kind , polite and respectful to others .
-We will not collect , store or use your names , only the content you write .
-The content is for our language and machine learning teams . We will use it to create a Tigrinya and English translation .
-The more Tigrinya text we gather , the better our digitised language will be . Currently , this is contributing to our goal of reaching 50 ,000 sentences for a text-text translation .
-To learn more about our project , check out our website here https ://travis .foundation/
POSTS
Welcome ! Please Introduce yourself .
Tell me about your favourite food .
What is your favourite sport to watch and why ?
What languages do you speak and how did you learn them ?
What was your first job ?
Please call a taxi .
What does it cost to go to the station ?
What does it cost to go to the airport ?
Please go straight ahead .
Please turn right here .
Please turn left at the corner .
I知 in a hurry .
I have time .
Please drive slowly .
Please stop here .
Please wait a moment .
I値l be back immediately .
Please give me a receipt .
I have no change .
That is okay , please keep the change .
Drive me to this address .
Drive me to my hotel .
Drive me to the beach .
Where is the next gas station ?
I have a flat tire .
Can you change the tire ?
I need a few liters of diesel .
I have no more petrol .
Do you have a petrol can ?
Where can I make a call ?
I need a towing service .
I知 looking for a garage .
An accident has occurred .
Where is the nearest telephone ?
Do you have a cell phone with you ?
We need help .
Call a doctor !
Call the police !
Your papers , please .
Your licence / license (am .) , please .
Your registration , please .
Excuse me !
Can you help me ?
Is there a good restaurant around here ?
Take a left at the corner .
Then go straight for a while .
Then go right for a hundred meters .
You can also take the bus .
You can also take the tram .
You can also follow me with your car .
How do I get to the football stadium ?
Cross the bridge !
Go through the tunnel !
Drive until you reach the third traffic light .
Then turn into the first street on your right .
Then drive straight through the next intersection .
Excuse me , how do I get to the airport ?
It is best if you take the subway .
Simply get out at the last stop .
Where is the tourist information office ?
Do you have a city map for me ?
Can one reserve a room here ?
Where is the old city ?
Where is the cathedral ?
Where is the museum ?
Where can one buy stamps ?
Where can one buy flowers ?
Where can one buy tickets ?
Where is the harbor ?
Where is the market ?
Where is the castle ?
When does the tour begin ?
When does the tour end ?
How long is the tour ?
I would like a guide who speaks German .
I would like a guide who speaks Italian .
I would like a guide who speaks French .
Is the fair open on Mondays ?
Is the market open on Sundays ?
Is the exhibition open on Tuesdays ?
Is the zoo open on Wednesdays ?
Is the museum open on Thursdays ?
Is the gallery open on Fridays ?
Can one take photographs ?
Does one have to pay an entrance fee ?
How much is the entrance fee ?
Is there a discount for groups ?
Is there a discount for children ?
Is there a discount for students ?
What building is that ?
How old is the building ?
Who built the building ?
I知 interested in architecture .
I知 interested in art .
I知 interested in paintings .
The zoo is there .
The giraffes are there .
Where are the bears ?
Where are the elephants ?
Where are the snakes ?
Where are the lions ?
I have a camera .
I also have a video camera .
Where can I find a battery ?
Where are the penguins ?
Where are the kangaroos ?
Where are the rhinos ?
Where is the toilet ?
There is a café over there .
There is a restaurant over there .
Where are the camels ?
Where are the gorillas and the zebras ?
Where are the tigers and the crocodiles ?
Is there a disco here ?
Is there a nightclub here ?
Is there a pub here ?
What’s playing at the theater this evening ?
What’s playing at the cinema this evening ?
What’s on TV this evening ?
Are tickets for the theater still available ?
Are tickets for the cinema still available ?
Are tickets for the football game still available ?
I want to sit in the back .
I want to sit somewhere in the middle .
I want to sit at the front .
Could you recommend something ?
When does the show begin ?
Can you get me a ticket ?
Is there a golf course nearby ?
Is there a tennis court nearby ?
Is there an indoor swimming pool nearby ?
We want to go to the cinema .
A good film is playing today .
The film is brand new .
Where is the cash register ?
Are seats still available ?
How much are the admission tickets ?
When does the show begin ?
How long is the film ?
Can one reserve tickets ?
I want to sit at the back .
I want to sit at the front .
I want to sit in the middle .
The film was exciting .
The film was not boring .
But the book on which the film was based was better .
How was the music ?
How were the actors ?
Were there English subtitles ?
Is this seat taken ?
with
Sure
How do you like the music ?
A little too loud .
But the band plays very well .
Do you come here often ?
No , this is the first time .
I’ve never been here before .
Would you like to dance ?
Maybe later .
I can’t dance very well .
It’s very easy .
I’ll show you .
No , maybe some other time .
Are you waiting for someone ?
Yes , for my boyfriend .
There he is !
You have to pack our suitcase !
Don’t forget anything !
You need a big suitcase !
Don’t forget your passport !
Don’t forget your ticket !
Don’t forget your traveler’s checks !
Take some suntan lotion with you .
Take the sun-glasses with you .
Take the sun hat with you .
Do you want to take a road map ?
Do you want to take a travel guide ?
Do you want to take an umbrella ?
Remember to take pants , shirts and socks .
Remember to take ties , belts and sports jackets .
Remember to take pyjamas , nightgowns and t-shirts .
You need shoes , sandals and boots .
You need handkerchiefs , soap and a nail clipper .
You need a comb , a toothbrush and toothpaste .
I want to buy a present .
But nothing too expensive .
Maybe a handbag ?
Which color would you like ?
Black , brown or white ?
A large one or a small one ?
May I see this one , please ?
Is it made of leather ?
Or is it made of plastic ?
Of leather , of course .
This is very good quality .
And the bag is really very reasonable .
I like it .
I’ll take it .
Can I exchange it if needed ?
Of course .
We’ll gift wrap it .
The cashier is over there .
What do you do for a living ?
My husband is a doctor .
I work as a nurse part-time .
We will soon receive our pension .
But taxes are high .
And health insurance is expensive .
What would you like to become some day ?
I would like to become an engineer .
I want to go to college .
I am an intern .
I do not earn much .
I am doing an internship abroad .
That is my boss .
I have nice colleagues .
We always go to the cafeteria at noon .
I am looking for a job .
I have already been unemployed for a year .
There are too many unemployed people in this country .
want to
We want to .
We do’t want to .
to be afraid
I’m afraid .
I am not afraid .
to have time
He has time .
He has no time .
to be bored
She is bored .
She is not bored .
to be hungry
Are you hungry ?
Aren’t you hungry ?
to be thirsty
They are thirsty .
They are not thirsty .
I have a doctor’s appointment .
I have the appointment at ten o’clock .
What is your name ?
Please take a seat in the waiting room .
The doctor is on his way .
What insurance company do you belong to ?
What can I do for you ?
Do you have any pain ?
Where does it hurt ?
I always have back pain .
I often have headaches .
I sometimes have stomach aches .
Remove your top !
Lie down on the examining table .
Your blood pressure is okay .
I will give you an injection .
I will give you some pills .
I am giving you a prescription for the pharmacy .
I am drawing a man .
First the head .
The man is wearing a hat .
One cannot see the hair .
One cannot see the ears either .
One cannot see his back either .
I am drawing the eyes and the mouth .
The man is dancing and laughing .
The man has a long nose .
He is carrying a cane in his hands .
He is also wearing a scarf around his neck .
It is winter and it is cold .
The arms are athletic .
The legs are also athletic .
The man is made of snow .
He is neither wearing pants nor a coat .
But the man is not freezing .
He is a snowman .
Where is the nearest post office ?
Is the post office far from here ?
Where is the nearest mail box ?
I need a couple of stamps .
For a card and a letter .
How much is the postage to America ?
How heavy is the package ?
Can I send it by air mail ?
How long will it take to get there ?
Where can I make a call ?
Where is the nearest telephone booth ?
Do you have calling cards ?
Do you have a telephone directory ?
Do you know the area code for Austria ?
One moment , I’ll look it up .
The line is always busy .
Which number did you dial ?
You have to dial a zero first !
I would like to open an account .
Here is my passport .
And here is my address .
I want to deposit money in my account .
I want to withdraw money from my account .
I want to pick up the bank statements .
I want to cash a traveller’s cheque .
What are the fees ?
Where should I sign ?
I’m expecting a transfer from Germany .
Here is my account number .
Has the money arrived ?
I want to change money .
I need US-Dollars .
Could you please give me small bills ?
Is there a cashpoint or an ATM ?
How much money can one withdraw ?
Which credit cards can one use ?
Dental evaluation .
What is the reason for your visit today ?
When was your last dental visit , last dental cleaning and last full mouth x - rays ?
What was done at your last dental visit ?
How often do you have dental examinations ?
How often do you clean your teeth in a day ?
Have you ever used or are you currently using topical fluoride ?
Are any of your teeth sensitive to : hot or cold , sweets , biting or chewing ?
Have you noticed any mouth odors or bad taste ?
Do you frequently get cold sores , blisters or any other oral lesions ?
Do your gums bleed or hurt ?
Have your parents experienced gum disease or tooth loss ?
Have you noticed any loose teeth or change in your bite ?
Does food tend to become caught in between your teeth ?
If yes , where ?
What other dental aids do you use ?
Have you ever had any of the following ?
Orthodontic treatment ?
Oral surgery ?
Periodontal treatment ?
A serious injury to the mouth or head ?
Do you clench or grind your teeth while awake or asleep ?
Do you bite your lips or cheeks regularly ?
Do you hold foreign objects such as pencils , pipe , pins , nails , fingernails with your teeth ?
Do you mouth breathe while awake or asleep ?
Do you have tired jaws , especially in the morning ?
Do you snore or have any other sleeping disorders ?
Do you smoke or chew tobacco or use other tobacco products ?
Have you experienced any one of the following .
Clicking or popping of the jaw ?
Pain joint , ear , side of face ?
Difficulty in opening or closing the mouth ?
Difficulty in chewing on either side of the mouth ?
Headaches , neck aches or shoulder aches ?
Are you satisfied with your teeth 's appearance ?
Would you like to keep all of your teeth all of your life ?
Do you feel nervous about having dental treatment ?
Have you ever had an upsetting dental experience ?
Have you ever been told to take a pre - medication prior to dental treatment ?
Is there anything else about having dental treatment that you would like us to know ?
Have you had any medical care within the past two years ?
Have you taken any medication during the past two years ?
Are you currently taking any medication , drugs , pills or herbal remedies ?
Have you ever taken prescription medications for weight loss ?
Have you ever taken bone loss prevention drugs ?
Are you aware of having an allergic reaction to any substance or medication ?
If yes , specify .
Have you been a patient in the hospital during the past five years ?
Indicate which of the following you have had , or have at present .
Heart surgery , disease , attack or congenital heart disease .
Chest Pain , Stroke , high or low blood pressure .
Arthritis or rheumatism , swollen ankles , artificial joints .
Cortisone medicine .
Diet restrictions .
Kidney problems , ulcers , diabetes , thyroid problems .
Glaucoma , contact lenses .
Chronic cough , tuberculosis , asthma .
Allergy .
Tumors , radiation therapy , chemotherapy .
Hepatitus A , B , C , AIDS / HIV positive .
Blood transfusion , hemophilia , bruise easily .
Liver disease or jaundice .
Neurological disorders , epilepsy or seizures , fainting or dizzy spells , psychological care .
Have you lost or gained more than 5 kg in the last year ?
Do you have or have you had any disease , condition , or problem not listed ?
Women : are you pregnant or think you could be pregnant ?
Do you use birth control medicines ?
I eat orange .
I and you are friends .
both of us live in Asmara .
He studies engineering .
he and she are classmates .
they both play in the filed .
the man works in at the bank .
the woman rides a car .
the child cries .
a family is a group of people .
my family lives in Rotterdam .
My family is here .
I am here .
You are here .
He is here and she is here .
We are here .
You are here .
They are all here .
my grandfather is 90 years old .
My grandmother lives with us .
his father works as a mechanic .
her mother is a nurse .
my son is 20 years old .
Her daughter loves traveling .
my brother lives in Norway .
Her sister the oldest in the family .
My uncle have two kids .
his aunt lives in with her husband .
We are a family .
The family is not small .
The family is big .
What are the health benefits of vitamin D ?
Vitamin D , also known as the sunshine vitamin , is produced by the body as a response to sun exposure ; it can also be consumed in food or supplements .
Vitamin D has multiple roles in the body .
Maintain the health of bones and teeth .
Support the health of the immune system , brain , and nervous system .
Regulate insulin levels and aid diabetes management .
Support lung function and cardiovascular health .
Influence the expression of genes involved in cancer development .
What is vitamin D ?
Vitamin D is actually not a vitamin .
Despite the name , vitamin D is considered a pro-hormone .
Vitamins are nutrients that cannot be created by the body and therefore must be taken in through our diet .
However , vitamin D can be synthesized by our body when sunlight hits our skin .
It is estimated that sensible sun exposure on bare skin for 5 - 10 minutes 2 - 3 times per week allows most people to produce sufficient vitamin D , but vitamin D breaks down quite quickly , meaning that stores can run low , especially in winter .
Recent studies have suggested that a substantial percentage of the global population is vitamin D deficient .
Health benefits of vitamin D .
Vitamin D is vital for teeth and bone health .
Reduced risk of flu .
Reduced risk of diabetes .
Healthy infants .
Healthy pregnancy .
Cancer prevention .
Recommended intake of vitamin D .
The amount of vitamin D you need depends on your age .
Vitamin D intake can be measured in two ways : in micrograms and International Units .
One microgram of vitamin D is equal to 40 IU of vitamin D .
Infants 0 - 12 months - 400 IU or10 mcg .
Children 1 - 18 years - 600 IU or 15 mcg .
Adults to age 70 - 600 IU or 15 mcg .
Adults over 70 - 800 IU or 20 mcg .
Pregnant or lactating women - 600 IU or 15 mcg .
Vitamin D deficiency .
Although the body can create vitamin D , there are many reasons deficiency can occur .
For instance , darker skin color and the use of sunscreen reduce the body 's ability to absorb the ultraviolet radiation B rays from the sun needed to produce vitamin D .
People who live in northern latitudes or areas of high pollution , work at night and stay home during the day , or are homebound should aim to consume extra vitamin D from food sources whenever possible .
Infants who are exclusively breastfed need a vitamin D supplement , especially if they are dark skinned or have minimal sun exposure .
Although vitamin D supplements can be taken , it is best to obtain any vitamin or mineral through natural sources wherever possible .
Symptoms of vitamin D deficiency .
Getting sick or infected more often .
Fatigue .
Painful bones and back .
Depressed mood .
Impaired wound healing .
Hair loss .
Muscle pain .
Vitamin D food sources .
Sunlight is the most common and efficient source of vitamin D .
The richest food sources of vitamin D are fish oil and fatty fish .
Here is a list of foods with good levels of vitamin D .
Fortified skim milk , 1 cup : 120 IU .
Tuna , canned in water 3 ounces : 68 IU .
Egg , chicken , whole large : 44 IU .
Potential health risks of consuming vitamin D .
The Upper Level limit recommended for vitamin D is 4 ,000 IU per day .
However , the National Institutes of Health has suggested that vitamin D toxicity is unlikely at daily intakes below 10 ,000 IU per day .
Excessive consumption of vitamin D can lead to over calcification of bones and hardening of blood vessels , kidney , lungs , and heart .
The most common symptoms of hypervitaminosis D are headache and nausea but can also include loss of appetite , dry mouth , vomiting , constipation , and diarrhea .
It is best to get your required Vitamin D from natural sources .
It is the total diet or overall eating pattern that is most important in disease prevention and achieving good health .
It is better to eat a diet with a variety than to concentrate on one individual nutrient as the key to good health .
Boot .
I have a very good blazer
collar
topper
Will you wear a necktie ?
she doesn apos & ; t wear a ring .
She will wear a stole .
Every monday I wear a shirt .
I like your shoe .
She likes wearing a skirt .
I never wear Socks .
Bring your Baggage .
He had a yellow Trouser .
I always wear singlet .
Before your asylum procedure begins .
Why have you been given this leaflet ?
You wish to apply for asylum in the Netherlands .
The asylum procedure does not start immediately on your arrival in the Netherlands .
You are given time to rest from your journey and to prepare for the General Asylum Procedure .
You are also expected to do a number of things .
you have at least six days to carry them out .
The leaflet explains to you what happens before the asylum procedure begins , one step at a time .
Step 1 applying and registering .
You must report to the Aliens Police in Ter Apel .
The Aliens Police Department , Identification and People Trafficking is part of the Dutch national police force and is responsible for monitoring foreign nationals in the Netherlands .
Officers of the Aliens Police will record your personal details such as your name , date of birth and nationality .
They will also examine your clothing and luggage as well as taking photos of you and recording your fingerprints .
The Aliens Police will also give you a leaflet in which they explain why they take your fingerprints .
Officers of the Aliens Police can also ask you questions about your journey , and whether you have applied for asylum in the past , either here or elsewhere in Europe and they will ask you whether you have any family members here or elsewhere in Europe .
Do you have any documents with which you can prove your identity , such as a passport , ID card , birth certificate or a driving licence ?
Or do you have any documents that can provide evidence of the journey you have taken or the reasons why you are applying for asylum , such as plane tickets , a boarding pass , diplomas , a judgment from the court or a newspaper article ?
Submit these documents when you register or try to get these documents before your asylum procedure begins .
A staff member of the Dutch Council for Refugees can help you with this .
Dutch Council for Refugees is an independent human rights organisation , whose aim is to protect the rights of asylum seekers .
The Dutch Council for Refugees can give you information and explain the asylum procedure to you , and is there in person to inform and support you as you pass through the asylum procedure , it can also help you if there are any problems with other organisations .
It works in close cooperation with your lawyer .
The Dutch Council for Refugees takes no part in the decision about your asylum application .
Your documents will be examined by experts to verify their authenticity .
Immigration and Naturalisation Service uses these documents when it assesses your asylum application .
Please note : Your personal details and your documents are important when your asylum application is being assessed .
Keep nothing back and check whether the details have been noted fully and correctly .
Never discard any personal documents .
The Dutch government will never tell the authorities in your country of origin that you have applied for asylum in the Netherlands .
Step 2 : tuberculosis test .
Tuberculosis is a serious disease that is common in many parts of the world , possibly also in the country where you have come from .
People with open TB can infect others , by coughing or sneezing , for instance .
For this reason , you will be screened in Ter Apel when you report there .
Tuberculosis is an infectious disease that usually affects the lungs .
Therefore , the screening consists of an X-ray of your chest .
If you are shown to have TB , you will be given a course of medication as treatment in the Netherlands .
The asylum procedure will only begin after the medical treatment has started .
Step 3 : registration interview .
During the registration interview , the IND will ask you questions about your identity and origin .
During this interview , no questions will be asked about the reasons why you have fled to the Netherlands .
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service is part of the Dutch Ministry of Justice .
The members of staff at IND will conduct interviews with you about your identity , nationality , your journey to the Netherlands and the reasons why you left your own country , They will consider your personal story and the situation in your country of origin .
They will then decide whether you can stay in the Netherlands sometimes for a temporary period or whether you must return to your own country or be transferred to another European country .
Step 4 : reception .
You will be provided with accommodation , meals and medical care in the Netherlands from the moment you have registered with the Aliens Police .
Your reporting , registration and the TB screening will not take longer than three days at the most .
The Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers has a reception centre close to the Aliens Police office in Ter Apel , This is where you will be accommodated .
After your reporting , registering and registration interview with the IND , you will be taken to another reception centre run by the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers .
When you are staying at a Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers , you will be sent an invitation to have a medical intake interview at Health center for asylum seekers .
This interview will be about your health and any medical problems you may have : its aim is to ensure that you are given appropriate medical care during your stay at a Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers reception centre .
Healthcare Centre for asylum seekers is the organisation that can assist you if you are ill or need medical care .
Healthcare Centre for asylum seekers can help you with any medical matters and can advise you on your health , or it can arrange an appointment with the doctor ' s assistant , the family doctor , the practice nurse or a mental healthcare adviser from the Dutch mental healthcare service .
Step 5 : information .
At the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers reception centre you can rest from your journey to the Netherlands .
And you can also prepare for the General Asylum Procedure .
At the reception centre , the Dutch Council for Refugees will inform you about the asylum procedure and the medical report .
An interpreter will also be available during this meeting to translate everything said between you and the person from the Dutch Council for Refugees .
You will also be given a leaflet that tells you what will happen during the course of your asylum procedure .
Staff at the Dutch Council of Refugees will also assist you and support you during the asylum procedure .
The services of the Dutch Council of Refugees are given free of charge .
Your information will be treated confidentially .
Step 6 : medical report .
The nurse will ask you a number of questions during the medical examination .
An interpreter will also be on hand during this meeting to translate everything said between you and the nurse ,Very often this is done via the telephone : the interpreter is not present in person .
When necessary , the nurse will refer you to a doctor for a further examination .
The nurse or the doctor will pass the results of the examination on to the Immigration and Naturalisation Service .
But only with your consent .
The IND will take your state of health into consideration during the asylum procedure .
It is important that you are honest about any mental and physical problems you may have and that you tell the nurse or the doctor about them .
It is also important that you tell the nurse of any scars you may have .
The report of the medical examination is confidential .
The medical examination is not compulsory .
Tell the nurse if you do not want to have the medical examination . In that case , the Immigration and Naturalisation Service will not be able to take your state of health into consideration during the asylum procedure .
This medical report is separate from the medical care that is available to you when you stay at the asylum seekers centre .
Step 7 : help from a lawyer .
A lawyer will assist you during your asylum procedure .
This lawyer works independently of the Dutch government .
You don 't need to look for a lawyer yourself : you will receive an invitation for a meeting with your lawyer from the Legal Aid Board .
If a lawyer is already assisting you , mention this during the registration interview .
Make sure that you check every day whether you have mail .
The first meeting with your lawyer is very important for your asylum procedure : be sure to be there .
In this meeting , the lawyer will prepare you for the interviews with the Immigration and Naturalisation Service .
The lawyer will hold this preparatory meeting with you at his office .
You will be given a map and directions on how to find the lawyer 's office , plus a train or bus ticket to get there .
An interpreter will also be available during this meeting to translate everything said between you and your lawyer .
You do not have to pay for your lawyer 's assistance .
Your information will be treated confidentially .
The asylum procedure .
After you have reported to the Aliens Police , it takes at least six days before you have the first interview with the Immigration and Naturalisation Service .
In reality , it can also take slightly longer .
While you are at the COA’s reception centre , you will receive a letter from the IND inviting you to this first interview .
You will also receive further information about the asylum procedure from the Dutch Council for Refugees within a few days .
Withdrawing your application .
You can withdraw your application any time you wish .
If you decide to do so , it is advisable to contact the Immigration and Naturalisation Service directly or your lawyer .
Nor will you be entitled to accommodation and related facilities .
Frequently Asked Questions .
Do you still have a question after reading this information leaflet ?
You can put these questions to your lawyer or to one of the members of staff of the Dutch Council for Refugees or Immigration and Naturalisation Service .
Do you have a complaint ?
All the organisations that are involved in the asylum procedure try to work professionally and carefully , but you can put in a complaint , if you feel that you haven’t been treated properly by one of the organisations .
Your lawyer or someone from the Dutch Council for Refugees can help you with this .
Education .
In the Netherlands , education is very important . For many occupations , you are only considered if you have obtained specific diplomas . On this page , a short explanation is given of the Dutch education system . The government wants everyone to obtain a diploma ( basic qualification ) . If you do not have work and apply for a benefit , you can be obliged to obtain a diploma until the age of 27 . There are also various training opportunities for asylum seekers . Children have no choice : they must go to school whatever their residence status .
In the Netherlands , education is compulsory for children up to 16 years of age and sometimes even 18 years of age ; only if they are ill , they do not have to go to school . It is also possible to ask leave in advance , for example , for a marriage , a funeral or a religious commitment .
Primary school .
Children from 4 years up to and including 12 years of age go to primary school . Primary school has eight years . Years 1 and 2 are nursery classes . From year 3 , children learn how to read , write , and do sums . In year 8 , all pupils must sit for an attainment test . The results are an indication about the level at which a pupil can attend further education . The teacher also gives advice on this . This advice is often followed by the new school upon admission .
Secondary school .
After primary school , the Netherlands has four levels of education in secondary school :
Employment - oriented training .
Preparatory secondary vocational education : this diploma gives entry to senior secondary vocational education ;
Senior general secondary education : this diploma gives entry to higher professional education ;
Pre-university education : this diploma gives entry to a university or to higher professional education .
Children who have just arrived in the Netherlands usually first go to an international preparatory class to learn Dutch . After approximately one year , they go to an ordinary class in secondary school . Unfortunately , not all children succeed in going to an ordinary class before they turn 18 years old . They must often continue through the lowest form of senior secondary vocational education to obtain a diploma .
Costs .
School fees for primary school and secondary school are for the greater part paid for by the government , but some school stuff and , for example , school trips must be paid for by the parents . For the lowest incomes , educational institutions sometimes have a discount scheme or remission is even granted .
Senior secondary vocational education .
If you want to attend a Senior secondary vocational education course , but you do not have a Dutch secondary school diploma , you must first pass the State Examination . A Senior secondary vocational education prepares you for an occupation in no more than four years . Most Senior secondary vocational education courses are a combination of lessons and work or traineeship . It is sometimes also possible to combine your Senior secondary vocational education course with an integration course .
Higher professional education and university .
You can obtain a bachelor or master degree at a Higher professional education course or university . HBO is aimed , in particular , at learning a specific profession , while university is a more theoretical course . When you want to study at a Higher professional education or university , the following is important to you :
Do you not have a Dutch diploma ? You must pass the State Examination for all Dutch language studies . You must pass examination for English language studies .
Your previous education must be sufficient . If you have obtained a diploma in your country of origin , you can have it evaluated by International Credential Evaluation . On the basis of this evaluation , the educational institutes determine whether your previous education is sufficient and whether you may even be granted an exemption for all or part of the course . If you do not have a diploma and / or your previous education is insufficient , you must sit for an entrance examination : the 21+ admission test . Ask the institution where you wish to attend your course for more information about this .
A transition year is a course in which you prepare yourself for an Higher professional education or university course . You will improve your Dutch language skills and take subjects that are important to your study . You will also get other subjects , such as study skills , informatics , and social orientation . A transition year is also a good opportunity to get used to the Dutch educational culture . Ask the school whether you are eligible for a transition year .
NB : If you were not following a course when you turned 18 , or if you did not finish it , you are often obliged to still pass your Civic Integration Examination or State Examination .
Study finance and study costs allowance .
Are you following a course or will you start a course next study year ? Do you have an asylum residence permit or a permanent regular permit ? Are you between 18 and 30 years of age ? In that case you can usually apply for a study costs allowance ( for secondary school or ) or study finance (for Senior secondary vocational education , Higher professional education and university) . The study finance is partially a gift ( supplementary grant ) and partially a loan you have to pay back after your study ; the study costs allowance is partially a gift .
When you are older than 30 years and younger than 55 years of age , you can borrow money for tuition fees or school fees on certain conditions .
Foundation for Refugee Students .
The Foundation for Refugee Students provides guidance to refugees on their study and finding a job . Also if you do not have a residence permit or if you are not eligible for study finance , you may get financial support for the study you will be undertaking . for example tuition fees , language courses , books , and travel expenses . The Foundation for Refugee Students can also also help you choosing a study and provide guidance during your study and on finding a job . For this purpose , you must register with the Foundation for Refugee Students as a client . Read more about the selection procedure .
